Title: Ferris Bueller's Day Off
Rank: 605
Year: 1986
Rating: 7.8
Plot: In a Chicago suburb two months before graduation, high school senior Ferris Bueller fakes illness to stay home from school. His parents believe he is ill, though his sister, Jeannie, does not. After learning Ferris is absent from school, Dean of Students Ed Rooney becomes determined to expose Ferris's chronic truancy (counting the day on which the film takes place, Ferris had been absent nine times that semester alone).  
Ferris persuades his hypochondriac best friend, Cameron Frye, to help excuse Ferris's girlfriend, Sloane Peterson, from school on the grounds that her grandmother died. To complete the ruse that Sloane's father is picking her up from school, Ferris borrows Cameron's father's 1961 Ferrari 250 GT California Spyder. Cameron, fearing his father's wrath, is dismayed when Ferris decides to take the car on a day trip into Chicago; Ferris promises they will return the car as it was, including preserving the original odometer mileage.
Ferris, Cameron and Sloane leave the car with two parking attendants, who promptly take it on a long joyride. Meanwhile, the trio explores the city, with Ferris taking care to stay out of view from his father. They visit the Art Institute of Chicago, use deception to dine at an upscale restaurant, go to a Chicago Cubs baseball game, and attend the Von Steuben Day Parade, with Ferris jumping on a float and lip-syncing to "Twist and Shout" by the Beatles.
Rooney prowls the Bueller home for Ferris, becoming victim to several pratfalls. Jeannie skips class and returns home to confront Ferris, but finds Rooney instead; shocked by his appearance, she knocks him unconscious and calls the police. Rooney regains consciousness and leaves, and the police arrest Jeannie for making a false report. While detained, she meets another delinquent who advises her to worry less about Ferris' exploits and more about her own life.
Upon collecting the Ferrari and heading home, Ferris and Cameron discover that the car's mileage has gone up significantly thanks to the attendants. Cameron becomes semi-catatonic from shock but wakes up after falling into a pool. Back at Cameron's house, Ferris jacks up the car and runs it in reverse to rewind the odometer. This fails, and Cameron destroys the car out of anger over his domineering father. Ferris offers to take the blame, but Cameron declines, deciding to stand up to his father.
After walking Sloane home, Ferris realizes his parents will be returning soon. He races on foot through the neighborhood but is nearly hit by Jeannie, who is driving their mother home. Katie fails to notice Ferris, though Jeannie does. Ferris makes it home first, but Rooney confronts him before he can get back inside. Seeing the two through the window, Jeannie has a change of heart and allows Ferris to come inside, claiming that Ferris was at the hospital for his illness. As Rooney flees from Ferris's Rottweiler, Ferris rushes back to his bedroom to await his parents. They find him in bed and believe he has been there all day, further suggesting that he take the next day off as well.
In a scene that plays as the credits roll, a humiliated, disheveled, injured Rooney reluctantly accepts a ride on a school bus filled with students who act derisively toward him. He sits next to a girl who offers him a gummy bear from her pocket, to his disgust. In a post-credits scene, Ferris looks into the camera and tells the audience, "You're still here? It's over! Go home! Go."
