Title: Paan Singh Tomar
Rank: 207
Year: 2012
Rating: 8.2
Plot: A reporter interviewed Paan Singh Tomar, a baaghi in the news for killing nine people of a community. Answering questions about himself, the story goes in a flashback from the year 1950. Paan Singh worked in the Army while his wife and mother live in Morena. He surprised his seniors in the army with his athletic skills. Though he was not interested in sports, he joined the sports division because there were no limits on their diet. Picked for the 5000 meters race's training, he was persuaded to run for the 3000 metres steeplechase by his coach. He participated in the Indian National Games and won the gold medal in the steeplechase event 7 years in a row. In 1958, he participated in the Asian Games at Tokyo, but failed to win because of his inability to adjust to the track spikes only given to him in the final event. He felt frustrated when he was not allowed to go to the borders to fight in the 1962 and 1965 wars because sportsmen were not allowed to fight in them. In 1967, he participated in the International Military Games and wins the gold medal in the steeplechase.
One day his brother came to visit him from his village and told him about some of their property being usurped by Bhanwar Singh, a relative. Paan Singh decided to retire from the army and left for his village to settle his family disputes, despite being offered a position as a coach in the army. Upon arriving home, he tried to resolve the issue with Bhanwar Singh. He even sought help from the District Collector and local police station, but no help was forthcoming. His son was then beaten up badly by Bhanwar Singh and his goons. To keep him safe Paan Singh ordered his son to join the army and asked him to stay away from the dispute. Eventually, Bhanwar Singh and his goons tried to kill Paan Singh and his family. Most of his family managed to escape but his mother was brutally murdered. Paan Singh decided to avenge his mother's death. He became a baaghi who engendered havoc in the Chambal Valley. He formed a gang of people in conflict with Bhanwar Singh.
Pann Singh then went into the business of extorting and kidnapping wealthy businessmen in the area to accumulate money and an arsenal for his people so that they can become a proper gang. After making all the necessary arrangements for arms and ammunition for gang members, he arranged a major attack on Bhanwar Singh, who had police protection. Bhanwar Singh killed by Paan Singh Tomar after a brief chase.
As an act of revenge for his brother's death, he killed nine villagers, who became police informers and had informed the police about his hideout. This event caused a furor in the nation, administration, and also among the other gangs of dacoits who urge him to surrender so that the manhunt by the police would be called off but he refused.
The interview with the reporter ends here and was published in the newspaper, causing a sensation. The police continued their search for Paan Singh Tomar, as a result, decided to lie low for a while. He met his family and his coach from the army who requested him to surrender. Paan Singh refused to surrender on the principle that while he was a sportsman holding a national record, nobody stood with him when he was facing problems, and the moment he decided to stand up for himself, he was branded a rebel and everyone wanted him arrested. When the gang reconvened after a month's hiatus, one of the members, Gopi  betrayed the gang by leading the police to their hideout. A shootout ensued where all members of the gang, including Paan Singh, killed by a police team led by Yashwant Singh Ghuraiya.
