Title: The Breath
Rank: 465
Year: 2009
Rating: 8
Plot: This film is about a small unit of 40 Turkish commandos in a remote two-way radio repeater station in southeastern Turkey at the first years of the 1990s, in a state of near-certain death, during the most violent times, in the conflict between the Turkish Army and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).

The film starts with a military helicopter coming to aid at Karabal Military Checkpoint after a firefight. The film then shifts to flashback to winter when Captain Mete (Mete Horozoğlu) along with his 40 men come to Karabal Military Checkpoint to curb the eponymous Doctor, a leader of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). En route two of his soldiers are killed by a sniper equipped with a Dragunov rifle. On reaching the checkpoint he parades the soldiers and intimidates them for not following proper rules.

The soldiers start maintaining the checkpoint, creating an observational post. In the meantime they also talk to each other about their families and how tough it is to be a soldier in such a place. One day when Commander Mete is talking with his wife Zeynep (Birce Akalay) on radio call, Doctor intercepts the radio call and threatens him that they will all die. Mete orders his second in command Bariş (Barış Bağcı) to start stricter patrols in the area around the checkpoint. In one such patrol they ambush a group of insurgents, killing some and wounding a woman (Aslı Turkel) in the process. Commander Mete orders Bariş to take her to the checkpoint, where she is treated by the paramedic but the commander tries to strangle her while turning the television on to enrage the doctor. Later on Mete calls a helicopter and sends her to the hospital at the base.

Doctor then intercepts the radio once again and declares he will attack soon. Months pass by and one night a soldier calls her bride to be to wish her for her birthday. While making the call, the insurgents attack with small artilleries and heavy guns. In the ensuing fight many are killed from both sides. Bariş along with three soldiers feigns a retreat while the Commander Mete is gravely wounded. The Doctor, seeing all the soldiers dead enters and kills the commander but is killed by soldier Turgay who was wounded but not dead. Bariş showers bullets on the rest of the insurgents from a higher point and kills them, thus securing the checkpost. The helicopter from the start comes and takes the dead soldiers and the wounded Turgay. Commander Mete's death is declared to Zeynep in Istanbul.

The film ends with another military detachment being sent to the checkpost.
