Title: Toy Story 4
Rank: 807
Year: 2019
Rating: 7.7
Plot: Between the second and third films, Woody and Bo Peep rescue Andy's remote control car, RC, from being washed away in a storm, before Bo and her  lamp are donated to a new owner. Distraught, Woody tries to rescue her, but Bo has accepted her fate as part of a toy's life. Woody attempts to go with her, but realizing that Andy still needs him, he shares a heartfelt goodbye with Bo and stays.
Nine years later, after a college-bound Andy has donated his toys to Bonnie, Woody struggles to adapt as Dolly acts as the leader in Bonnie's room, and Bonnie shows little interest in playing with him. Remaining convinced that Bonnie needs him, Woody sneaks into her backpack the day of her kindergarten orientation. When another child steals Bonnie's art supplies, Woody leaves objects from the trash on Bonnie's table. Bonnie creates a doll from a spork and other materials, naming him Forky. Forky comes to life, but suffers an existential crisis, seeing himself as trash, not a toy. As Forky quickly becomes Bonnie's new favorite toy, Woody repeatedly has to stop him from throwing himself away.
When Bonnie's family goes on a road trip, Forky jumps out the window of the RV, and Woody does the same. As they walk to the RV park, Woody convinces Forky that his place is with Bonnie, and Forky overcomes his existential crisis. As they pass an antique store's window, Woody recognizes Bo Peep's lamp, and detours inside to find her. They encounter a talking doll named Gabby Gabby and her ventriloquist dummy friends, who try to take Woody's voice box to replace Gabby's broken one. Woody escapes the store, though Forky does not. At a playground, Woody reunites with Bo Peep and her sheep, who have become "Lost Toys", free from any owners and able to do as they please, along with their new friend, a miniature police officer toy named Giggles McDimples, and they agree to help Woody rescue Forky.
Buzz Lightyear, trying to find Woody, gets lost in a carnival and becomes a game prize, but escapes with plush toys Bunny and Ducky. They meet up with Woody and Bo, who leads them to a hangout inside a pinball machine, where they find Canadian stunt bike toy Duke Caboom. They attempt to rescue Forky by jumping across the aisle to the cabinet, only to nearly get killed by the store owner's cat. The toys argue about going back, and Woody, desperate to be important to Bonnie, inadvertently insults Bo by saying "Lost Toys" can't understand loyalty. He is left alone to rescue Forky, but when he confronts Gabby, she explains to him she has wanted a child's love her entire life. Woody sympathizes and gives her his voice box on the condition Forky is released.
As Woody and Forky leave, they see Gabby callously rejected by Harmony, the store owner's granddaughter. Woody leaves Forky and convinces Gabby to come back to Bonnie's house with him. Bo, Caboom, McDimples, Bunny and Ducky return (after Bo realizes that Woody is loyal so that Bonnie can be happy), and help the pair escape to the fairgrounds. Jessie, after Forky informs her of the situation, rallies Bonnie's toys to take over the RV controls and drive it to the fair. As Woody's group approaches the RV, Gabby notices a lost little girl and stops to comfort her. The little girl is found by her parents and keeps Gabby as her toy.
Woody and Bo Peep prepare to leave each other again, but Buzz assures Woody that Bonnie is okay without him, and that he can stay with Bo as a "Lost Toy" along with McDimples, Caboom, Ducky and Bunny. Woody gives his badge to Jessie and his friends share an emotional goodbye with him before leaving with Bonnie. In an epilogue, the "Lost Toys" travel with the carnival to help prize toys find owners, and Bonnie creates a companion for Forky from a plastic knife.
