Title: Dallas Buyers Club
Rank: 501
Year: 2013
Rating: 7.9
Plot: Promiscuous Dallas electrician and rodeo cowboy Ron Woodroof is diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and told that he had about 30 days to live. At first he refuses to accept the diagnosis, until he remembers having unprotected sex with a prostitute who was an intravenous drug user. Woodruff's family and friends ostracize him, mistakenly assuming he contracted AIDS from gay sex (he is straight). He is fired from his job and evicted from his home. His doctor, Eve Saks, tells him an antiretroviral drug called zidovudine (AZT)—the only drug yet approved for testing in human clinical trials by the FDA—is thought to prolong the life of AIDS patients. Saks informs him that half of the trial patients receive the drug and the other half a placebo since this is the only way to determine if the drug works.
Woodroof bribes a hospital worker to get him AZT which, exacerbated by his cocaine and alcohol abuse, causes his health to deteriorate. Recuperating in the hospital, he meets Rayon, a drug-addicted, HIV-positive trans woman he is initially hostile toward. As his health worsens, he drives to a makeshift Mexican hospital to get more AZT. The facility is run by an American, Dr. Vass, whose medical license was revoked because his work with people with AIDS had violated US regulations. Vass warns Woodroof against AZT, telling him it is "poisonous." Instead, he prescribes a cocktail of drugs and nutritional supplements centered on ddC and the protein peptide T, which are not yet approved for use in the United States by the FDA. Three months later, Woodroof finds his health much improved and realizes he could make money by importing the drugs and selling them to other HIV-positive patients. He is able to get the drugs over the border by masquerading as a priest and claiming they are for personal use. Dr. Saks starts to notice the adverse effects of AZT, but her supervisor, Dr. Sevard, tells her the trials cannot be discontinued.
Woodroof starts selling the drugs in Dallas on the street, at gay nightclubs, and at discotheque bars. He reluctantly sets up a partnership with Rayon since she can bring in more customers. The pair establish the Dallas Buyers Club, charging $400 per month for membership and giving away the drugs to members, in order to circumvent the laws that made it illegal to sell the drugs. The club is extremely popular, and Woodroof gradually begins to respect Rayon as a friend. When Woodroof is hospitalized for a heart attack caused by an overdose of recently acquired interferon from Japan, Dr. Sevard learns of the club and its alternative drugs and is angry that the buyers club is interfering with his trial. The FDA confiscates the interferon and threatens to have Woodroof arrested. Dr. Saks agrees that there are benefits to clubs for HIV drugs, but feels powerless to change anything. The process the FDA uses to research, test, and approve drugs is considered flawed and part of the problem for people suffering from AIDS. At that time, the United States and the FDA were particularly conservative by international standards in testing and approving anti-AIDS drugs and were hostile to imported drugs to the point they were made contraband. Dr. Saks and Woodroof begin a friendship.
The FDA gets a warrant to raid the buyers club but can do nothing but fine Woodroof. The FDA changes its regulations in 1987, making any unapproved drug illegal. With the club strapped for cash, Rayon begs her father for money and tells Woodroof that she has sold her life insurance policy to raise money. Woodroof travels to Mexico to get more peptide T. Upon his return, he finds that Rayon has died in the hospital and is extremely upset by her death. Dr. Saks is asked to resign when the hospital discovers she had been sending patients to the buyers club, but she refuses and insists they will have to fire her instead.
After Rayon's death, Woodroof begins to show more compassion toward gay, lesbian, and transgender members of the club, and making money becomes less of a concern; his priority becomes providing the drugs. Peptide T gets increasingly challenging to acquire. Woodruff files a lawsuit against the FDA in late 1987, seeking the legal right to take the protein, which has been confirmed as nontoxic, but is still not FDA-approved. The judge is sympathetic toward him and admonishes the FDA, but lacks the power to do anything. The FDA later allows Woodroof to take peptide T for personal use. He dies of AIDS in 1992, seven years later than his doctors initially had predicted.
