Title: Zulu
Rank: 870
Year: 1964
Rating: 7.7
Plot: In 1879, a communiqué from Lord Chelmsford to the Secretary of State for War in London details the crushing defeat of a 1,300-man British column by the Zulu armies at Isandlwana. In the aftermath of the battle, Zulu tribesmen are shown scavenging the battlefield and collecting rifles and ammunition from the dead soldiers. At a mass Zulu marriage ceremony witnessed by missionary Otto Witt and his daughter Margareta, Zulu King Cetshwayo is informed of the great victory; Witt and Margareta flee when they realize what has happened.
A company of the British Army's 24th Regiment of Foot is using Witt's missionary station at Rorke's Drift in Natal as a supply depot and hospital for British forces in Zululand. Receiving news of Isandlwana from Natal Native Contingent Commander Adendorff and warnings that 4,000 Zulu warriors are advancing on their position, Lieutenant John Chard of the Royal Engineers assumes command of a force consisting of less than 200 men as he is slightly senior to their nominal commander, Lieutenant Gonville Bromhead. With not enough time to order a full evacuation, Chard decides to stay and fight. He has wagons, sacks of mealie (maize), and crates of hardtack stacked to form a defensive perimeter, gun holes knocked in the hospital walls, and a medical ward set up in Witt's chapel.
A contingent of South African cavalrymen who had fought at Isandlwana arrive, refuse Chard's pleas to help reinforce the station on the grounds that it is hopeless, and swiftly depart on their horses. Witt, enraged by Chard arming the hospital's patients and ordering them to fight instead of allowing them to be evacuated, persuades the Zulus serving in the Natal Native Contingent to desert. Chard then angrily orders Witt to be locked up in the chapel's supply room after Witt starts drinking heavily and proclaims that none of the soldiers will survive the coming battle.
The Zulu impis approach and then charge before quickly retreating under British fire; Adendorff explains that they are trying to find weak points in the station's defenses. Chard permits Margareta to take her father away; the Zulus, recognizing Witt, allow them to pass unharmed. Chard is concerned that the northern perimeter wall is under-defended and realises that the Zulus, aware of this, are preparing to attack the station from all sides. Zulu warriors armed with British rifles also start taking potshots at the soldiers. Throughout the day and night, wave after wave of Zulu attackers are repelled, but the defenders are slowly killed off one-by-one. The Zulus succeed in setting fire to the hospital, and Private Henry Hook rallies the patients to fight them and escape.
The next morning, the Zulus approach to within several hundred yards and sing a lament before launching again into their war chant; the British respond by singing the Welsh song "Men of Harlech". In the final assault, just as it seems the Zulus will finally overwhelm the tired defenders, the British soldiers fall back to a small redoubt in front of the chapel. With a reserve of men hidden within the redoubt, they form into three ranks and fire volley after volley, inflicting heavy casualties; the Zulus retreat. After a pause of three hours, the Zulus re-form on the Oscarberg. Resigned to another assault, the British are astonished when the Zulus instead sing a song to honour the bravery of the defenders before departing.
Eleven defenders receive the Victoria Cross for the defence of Rorke's Drift, the most ever awarded for a single action.
