Title: Wonder
Rank: 486
Year: 2017
Rating: 7.9
Plot: August "Auggie" Pullman is a 10-year-old boy living in Brooklyn with his mother Isabel, father Nate, older sister Via, and dog Daisy. He was born with a rare facial deformity "mandibulofacial dysostosis", and has undergone 27 different surgeries in order to help him function. As a result, Auggie wears an astronaut helmet when he is out in public. For much of his life, Auggie has been homeschooled, but as he approaches fifth grade, his parents decide to enroll him in Beecher Prep, a private middle school with the kind Mr. Tushman as its principal. When school starts, Auggie is ostracized, but soon forms a close friendship with his classmate, Jack Will. 
For Halloween, Auggie dresses in a Ghostface mask and cloak from the previous year when Daisy accidentally vomits on the Boba Fett costume he was planning to wear. Auggie walks through school upbeat and confident due to the anonymity his costume affords him. However, as he enters his homeroom, he overhears Jack, who fails to recognize him, joining Julian Albans and his friends, who ostracized Auggie, in making fun of him behind his back, saying he would kill himself if he looked like Auggie. Becoming distraught and ill, his mother abandons her mother-daughter day with Via to bring Auggie home. Though she is hurt, Via convinces him to go trick-or-treating with her, as she has been rejected by her best friend Miranda. 
Auggie forms a new friendship with a girl named Summer Dawson, confiding in her about his split with Jack. When Jack asks Summer why Auggie is avoiding him, she only gives Jack the clue "Ghostface". In science class, realization dawns on Jack, and he resolves to partner with Auggie instead of Julian for the science fair. When Julian confronts Jack in the hallway and calls Auggie a "freak", they begin fighting, which is broken up by Mr. Browne and another teacher. After suspending Jack for two days, Mr. Tushman reads Jack's letter about defending Auggie. Jack apologizes to Auggie during a Minecraft session and they reconcile.
Meanwhile, Via, even though she loves her family, has been feeling neglected and that her parents tend to spend more time looking after Auggie since he was born. She signs up for Drama Club after meeting a theater student named Justin, with whom she soon begins a romantic relationship. Via is selected as Miranda's understudy for the lead role in the school's production of Our Town, but on opening night, when Justin tells Miranda that Via's family is in attendance after she tells him that her family is not, Miranda feigns illness to let Via take her place. Via gives a moving performance that earns her acclaim from the crowd, and she and Miranda reconcile.
Auggie's popularity and circle of friends grow bigger over time, but he continues to be harassed by Julian and his friends until Mr. Browne notices. Mr. Tushman later confronts Julian and his parents with evidence that includes derogatory notes and a class picture with Auggie photoshopped out. Julian's mother admits that she edited the picture and asserts that the students should not be exposed to Auggie. Mr. Tushman suspends Julian for two days, and his parents decide to pull him out of the school. 
At the nature retreat, Auggie and Jack are ambushed by a trio of seventh graders from another school, but Julian's friends, Amos, Miles, and Henry, rally and defend them. Auggie then becomes more accepted by his classmates. At the year-end graduation ceremony, Auggie thanks his mother for taking him to school. She tells him, "You really are a wonder, Auggie." Auggie is given the Henry Ward Beecher Medal by Mr. Tushman for his strength and courage at the end of the ceremony. His father tells him he took his astronaut helmet to his office and asks Auggie if he wants it back, but he refuses, feeling he no longer needs it.
