Title: The Great Escape
Rank: 171
Year: 1963
Rating: 8.2
Plot: In 1942, the Third Reich moves Allied POWs who repeatedly escape captivity to a new camp under the command of Luftwaffe Colonel von Luger. He warns British Group Captain Ramsey—the highest-ranked POW officer and their de facto leader—that any man who escapes will be shot. 
Regardless, many of the men try as soon as arriving, though none make it past the fence. USAAF Captain Hilts, a notoriously prolific escapee, spots a blind spot between two guard towers—however, he purposefully gets caught before the guards can realize his discovery. He is sentenced to solitary isolation (“the cooler”) with RAF airman Ives, whom he befriends.
RAF Squadron Leader Roger Bartlett forms "the X Organisation", an escape-planning committee, with Ramsey's tacit approval. He argues that the best way to help the Allied forces is to break out 250 men simultaneously, forcing the Germans to divert significant manpower away from the front. The POWs begin working on three tunnels: "Tom", "Dick", and "Harry".
Each POW brings something to the plan. Hendley secures vital objects on the black market, and forms a bond with Blythe, an expert forger. Sedgwick makes picks and air bellows, while Welinski and Dickes oversee the digging. MacDonald gathers intelligence, Griffith sews civilian disguises, and Ashley-Pitt devises a method of hiding the excavated dirt. Digging noise is masked by a choir, led by Cavendish, who also surveys the tunnels' routes.
Aware that Hilts was planning to use the blind spot to jump the fence, Bartlett asks him to instead help the X Organisation by escaping, scouting out the surrounding area, and then allowing himself to be recaptured so he can draw maps for the main breakout. Hilts refuses out of pride.
When "Tom" nears completion first, Bartlett orders "Dick" and "Harry" sealed off. Hilts, Hendley, and Goff brew potato moonshine with a homemade still and celebrate the Fourth of July with the entire camp, but to the POWs' dismay the guards, drawn to the celebration, find "Tom". A despondent Ives snaps, frantically climbs the barbed wire fence, and is shot dead. Hilts, shaken, agrees to Bartlett's proposal.
Bartlett switches the prisoners' efforts to "Harry". When the tunnel partially collapses, Welinski has a breakdown and confides in Dickes that he is claustrophobic. He tries to break out through the fence, but Dickes manages to calm him down before being shot like Ives. Blythe finds he's going blind due to progressive myopia, and Hendley takes it upon himself to be Blythe's eyes during the escape. 
The last part of the tunnel is completed, but when they break the surface the end is 20 ft short of the treeline, well within sight of the guards. Guided by Hilts using a tug on a rope as a signal—and aided by a conveniently-timed air raid blackout—multiple POWs flee before Cavendish slips and makes a noise. An impatient Griffith surfaces while a guard investigates and is captured, ending the breakout.
The 76 escapees flee throughout Europe. Three make it to freedom: Welinski and Dickes row to a port and board a ship for Sweden, while Sedgwick makes it to France, where the Resistance smuggles him to Spain. The rest are unsuccessful: Cavendish hitches a ride on a truck, but is turned in by the driver. Hilts steals a motorcycle and heads for the German-Swiss border, chased by soldiers, but the bike is shot and he is recaptured. Hendley and Blythe steal a plane to fly to Switzerland, but crash when the engine fails; Blythe is shot and Hendley recaptured. At a railway station, Kuhn, a Gestapo guard from the camp, is with the authorities searching the disembarking passengers for escapees. Ashley-Pitt kills Kuhn to prevent him recognizing Bartlett and is shot dead. However, Bartlett and MacDonald are still caught when another Gestapo officer tricks MacDonald into speaking English while boarding a bus.
Most of the men are loaded into trucks, but instead of returning to the camp are taken to a field and shot dead on Hitler's direct orders. An ashamed von Luger tells Ramsey that 50 were killed; a broken Hendley asks Ramsey if the escape was worth it. Von Luger is relieved of command and driven to an uncertain fate. Hilts returns and is sent to the cooler, where he begins planning his next escape.
