Title: Rangasthalam 1985
Rank: 199
Year: 2018
Rating: 8.2
Plot: In 1980s, Chittibabu, a grumpy resident of Rangasthalam with partial deafness, irrigates agricultural fields with an electric motor of Kolli Rangamma, his close confidant. Phanindra Bhupathi, President of Rangasthalam's Panchayat, is dreaded and treated with high regard. The village's Cooperative society alias the society seizes maize crops of Erra Srinu in response to his delay in repaying the loan despite the family's contrasting claims. Stressed, he apparently drowns himself in the river to death. Chittibabu gladly receives his elder brother Kumar Babu, who has gone for employment to Persian Gulf a long time ago. Chittbabu often escorts his brother to Rajahmundry for Kumar Babu to meet his love interest Padma. Chittibabu encounters Ramalakshmi and passionately falls in love with her while concealing his secret of being hard of hearing. Kumar Babu is disdained by the society's deeds of charging high-interests on loans and annexing their properties under pretext of unpaid loans, taking advantage of the villagers' illiteracy. 
Chittibabu conflicts with Kashi's brothers for misbehaving with Ramalakshmi, who proposes marriage; he pretends to hear and leaves immediately. Later, Chittibabu realizes that she popped the question and sneaks into her home at midnight but ends up alerting her family of his existence in the house due to his impairment. Lacking courage to admit her feelings for him, Ramalakshmi denies loving Chittibabu to the family and villagers, prompting everyone to misinterpret his intentions and Chittibabu to break ties with her. Eventually, after he protects a villager from committing suicide, Ramalakshmi discerns his disability and offers to reconcile but he doesn't relent. Educated enough to grasp the society's deception in her father's case too, Ramalakshmi protests with Kumar Babu, who inadvertently assaults one of the employees and a Panchayat is summoned to look into it. Intimidated to lie, Ramalakshmi's father drags her away and Bhupathi charges Kumar Babu a massive fine. Sheshu Naidu, the society's president, humiliates Koteswara Rao, Chittibabu and Kumar Babu's father but everyone chooses to repress it from Chittibabu. Discovering it nevertheless, an outraged Chittibabu smacks Naidu and is consequently apprehended by the Police, not before he reconciles with Ramalakshmi. As Bhupathi refuses to help, Kumar Babu consults Dakshina Murthy, the MLA of their constituency, nominates himself as Rangasthalam's President candidate and plans to contest in the Panchayat elections against Bhupathi, who has been winning unanimously for thirty years, unopposed every election. 
Kumar Babu uncovers the society's fraudulent deeds, exposing it to the villagers, manages to acquire their support and persuades them to nominate themselves as the ward members (Kashi and his brothers inclusive) but Rangamma mysteriously denies support, upsetting Chittibabu. Upon being mocked and confronted, Rangamma furiously discloses to him that several villagers, including her husband Ramprasad and Erra Srinu, were brutally murdered for attempting to oppose Bhupathi and that she is apprehensive of the same fate for Kumar Babu. Concerned for his brother, Chittibabu accepts a bribe from Bhupathi, intending to eject the villagers' support for Kumar Babu but as the latter contemplates suicide, he repents and returns the bribe, intimidating Bhupathi. Erra Srinu's father, who is a loyal servant to Bhupathi despite his family being exploited by the Society, realizes that his son was murdered by him, having eavesdropped on the latter's conversation with Sheshu Naidu, who is violently struck and killed with a pot by an insane Bhupathi after advising him to step down before he loses the election. While returning home alone after his meeting with Padma, Kumar Babu is ruthlessly hacked by Bhupathi’s men while Chittibabu uncovers the conspiracy and rushes to protect him. Chittibabu subdues the assassins and takes Kumar Babu, who has sustained himself and a few wounds, to a roadside shop and goes to procure first-aid but returns to find that a veiled man has absconded after slitting Kumar Babu's throat. Before dying, he tries to name the perpetrator but Chittibabu fails to hear it. Dejected by his demise, the villagers led by Chittibabu barge into Bhupathi's house but comprehend that he has decamped. Chitti Babu, now with a hearing aid, along with a gang of men including Kashi, hunts far and wide for Bhupathi following the directions of a soothsayer, while broken internally as a result of Kumar Babu’s death. After Kumar Babu's cremation, Rangamma is unanimously elected as Rangasthalam's President of Panchayat and she assumes authority. Chitti Babu sees dancers chanting the name of "Srimannarayana"; deducing that his brother was trying to say the same before his death, Chittibabu races to meet Dakshina Murthy but witnesses him being hit by a truck and hospitalizes him (the opening scene). 
He tends to a comatose Dakshina Murthy for 2 whole years, volunteering to care for him despite doctors and family giving up on Murthy’s chances of survival, and lives at the hospital taking care of Murthy’s every need. One day he finally recuperates and after he has fully convalesced 2 months later, Chitti Babu goes to meet him at his residence, where celebrations are aroar regarding Murthy’s upcoming minister position. Upon being inquired about Bhupathi, Chittibabu confesses to murdering him after locating him but divulges that Kumar Babu's culprit was someone else: Dakshina Murthy himself, who instructed his henchman Srimannarayana to kill Kumar Babu, detesting his love affair with his youngest daughter Padma. Dakshina Murthy eventually admits that Chittibabu's accusation is true and expresses his contempt for the relationship as Kumar Babu belonged to a lower caste, viciously splashing his water into Chitti Babu’s face as a symbol of inferiority. Ultimately, Chittibabu reveals that he has spared him all these days to murder him when he has aspirations to survive, quietly eliminates him in his men's absence and leaves his house with Ramalakshmi, his wife, while they spot Padma and her husband approaching.
