Title: The Worst Person in the World
Rank: 623
Year: 2021
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Julie is a medical student in Oslo who transfers to psychology and then photography. In her late 20s, she starts a relationship with Aksel Willman, a comic artist 15 years older than her. Now dabbling in writing, she spends a weekend with Aksel at his parents' house. Aksel floats the idea of starting a family with Julie, but Julie is uncertain. While walking home from a publishing event for Aksel, Julie crashes a wedding reception and meets Eivind, a barista. Though both are in relationships, they spend the night together sharing jokes and intimacies, but without sexual relations. They exchange only their first names and part ways.
Julie writes a short story about feminism and oral sex. Aksel is impressed by it and encourages her to post it online, where it receives attention. She celebrates her 30th birthday at her divorced mother's home, but her father fails to attend, claiming back pain. Days later, Julie's half-sister inadvertently reveals that their father was watching her play at a football tournament on Julie's birthday. He makes excuses to decline Aksel's invitation to visit him and Julie in Oslo. While working at a bookstore, Julie encounters Eivind and his girlfriend Sunniva. At dinner with Aksel's brother and sister-in-law, Aksel complains about the sanitized cinematic adaptation of his politically incorrect comic series "Bobcat", leaving Julie feeling bored and ignored. She dreams that she goes on a date with Eivind, where they fall in love. The next day, she breaks up with Aksel.
Eivind leaves the obsessively social-justice-and-climate-conscious Sunniva because of her restrictive lifestyle. Julie and Eivind move in together. He hosts a small party where one of his friends uncovers Eivind's stash of psychedelic mushrooms, which Julie consumes, leading to hallucinations. The next night, she tells Eivind that she can be herself around him. Aksel's brother happens upon Julie at work and discloses that Aksel has incurable pancreatic cancer. Some time later, Eivind finds a short story Julie wrote. When he assumes it is autobiographical, Julie angrily denies it and patronizes him.
Julie learns she is pregnant and delays telling Eivind. She visits Aksel in the hospital, and he says he is afraid to die and still loves her. Julie admits that she is pregnant. Despite his assertions that she would be a good mother, she remains frightened. Returning home, Julie tells Eivind about her pregnancy, and says she needs time to decide whether she wants to keep the child. She later receives a voicemail from Aksel's brother reporting that Aksel is unlikely to survive the night. While showering, she has a miscarriage.
Some time later, Julie is working as an on-set photographer at a film shoot. She photographs an actress and then sees her outside with Eivind and a baby. She returns home to edit the day's photos.
