Title: Once Upon a Time in Anatolia
Rank: 749
Year: 2011
Rating: 7.8
Plot: A group of men drive around at night in the rural area of Keskin looking for the buried body of murder victim Yasar Toprak. The perpetrator Kenan recalls burying him near a water fountain with his mentally challenged brother, but the fact that he was drunk during it, the lack of sunlight, and the repetitive landscapes make it difficult for him to find. As the night goes on, prosecutor Nurset tells doctor Cemal about a case he was involved in where a woman correctly informed her husband of her date of death months in advance shortly after giving birth to their child. He explains that she died of a heart attack, but Cemal points out that she could have brought it on intentionally with medication.
Commissioner Naci stops Cemal from giving Kenan a cigarette, claiming he has to earn it. The group stops at a nearby village, where the mayor asks Nurset to get Keskin to help fund a morgue, as his town is mostly populated by the elderly and their children want to see their bodies. The wind causes a power outage and the mayor's daughter brings the group tea, where the beauty of her face by lamplight causes Kenan to shed tears. He explains to Naci that he revealed that Yasar's son Adem was actually his, which caused a fight in which Yasar was killed. Naci gives him a cigarette.
As the sun rises, Kenan finds the body and the authorities realize it has been tied. They untie it, but then realize it was bound so it could fit in the trunk of Kenan's car. Having forgotten a body bag, they force it into the trunk of their car. As they return to Keskin, Adem and his mother Gülnaz watch Kenan emerge from the car. Adem hits Kenan in the head with a small stone, causing him to weep.
In conversation with Nurset, Cemal notes a specific drug that could have easily been used to induce a heart attack, which Nurset admits he is familiar with due to his father-in-law's heart problems. Nurset muses that the woman may have committed suicide because of her husband's infidelity but waited to do so after the baby was born, and the way he describes the situation implies that the woman was his wife. Gülnaz confirms that the body is Yasar, and an autopsy reveals the presence of dirt in his lungs after she leaves, indicating that he was buried alive. Cemal omits this from the report. As the technician cuts open Yasar's body, Cemal watches the remaining Topraks leave with Yasar's belongings.
