Title: Super 30
Rank: 593
Year: 2019
Rating: 7.9
Plot: The movie begins with Fugga, a successful person, giving a talk in London. Fugga recalls his experience of learning from his teacher, Anand Kumar.
The scenes go back in time to show a younger Anand in college. Anand is a lower-class student who has a passion for studies and is good at it. At a local competition felicitation, the local minister, Shriram Singh, proud of him, promises to help whenever needed.
Anand frequently goes to Banaras Hindu University's library to learn mathematics by solving problems in a foreign Math journal. One day, the library supervisor finally catches him and says that he has no right to read there. One staff member suggests he get his article published in this journal and earn a free lifetime subscription to it. Anand goes to the post office, where his father Rajendra works as the head, and posts a letter regarding the solution to a difficult Math problem that no one has been able to solve yet. He then gets featured in the journal for solving the problem and gets a letter from Professor Richard of the University of Cambridge to join a program there.
Anand's family supports him completely, but the family has not enough money for him to travel to England. Anand and Rajendra go to the minister Shriram Singh for help, but he denies any such promise. Anand tries to show his medal as proof and a reminder of Shriram's word of honor, but still does not get the money. They both try to collect money but remain helpless. The same night, Rajendra has a heart attack and passes away while his sons rush him to the hospital. Anand refuses to go to Cambridge due to his father's death and their financial condition.
He then sells papads in the city to add income to the family. One day, he meets Lallan Singh, an [crony\servant] of Shriram Singh, who runs a high-profile coaching center. Lallan takes Anand in as a teacher in 'Excellence Coaching Centre'. This helps Anand financially and also earns him praise for his teaching. One fateful day, Anand sees the plight of a boy who had to leave due to poverty. Recalling Rajendra's words, he realizes that these poor kids also have a right to study. Eventually, he leaves the coaching center and starts separate tuition for poor kids in which he enrolls 30 kids at a time. Unfortunately, this hurts him financially and also costs him the support of his love interest, Supriya. But he decides, nonetheless, to teach the kids in an enthusiastic and practical manner by clearing concepts in an easy and fun way. All this enrages Lallan, whose center is facing criticism for not retaining Anand.
Lallan, in an effort to bring back Anand, tries to give free geometry boxes to Anand's center but does not succeed. He challenges Anand to a duel, in which Lallan's students and Anand's students write the same exam, and the coaching center with the lowest average score would be closed. The exam happens. In a ceremony announcing the results of the exam, Anand's students are devastated to know that they lost. To present the papers, which Anand signed before the competition, Lallan invites Supriya, and her husband Purshottam an IAS officer, which shocks Anand. However, the papers are not found, which spurs Anand to deny such claims of him signing the papers. It is later revealed that Supriya hid the papers, meaning that she understood Anand's decision to tutor poor kids.
While in course of the tuition, Anand gets immense help from his brother Pranav and his mother Jayanti. Lallan and Shriram plot to have Anand and the students killed so that his kids won't take the Indian Institute of Technology exam (IIT-JEE). Anand is hurt brutally by two of Lallan's henchmen and is hospitalized, on the verge of death. He tells his students to use their knowledge to defeat the goons sent by Shriram, while he is being treated. The students, in unity, use their knowledge of different concepts and subjects and defeat the goons. Anand is treated successfully and recuperates. A few months later the students take the IIT exam and all 30 of them crack it successfully.
