Title: Downfall
Rank: 168
Year: 2004
Rating: 8.2
Plot: In November 1942 Adolf Hitler invites a number of women to interview for the position of personal secretary. Traudl Junge is overjoyed when he chooses her. Two and a half years later, the Red Army has pushed Germany's forces back and surrounded Berlin. On Hitler's 56th birthday, shelling of Berlin's city centre starts. Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler tries to persuade Hitler to start negotiations with the Western Allies, but Hitler refuses. Himmler leaves to negotiate in secret. Later, Gruppenführer Hermann Fegelein, Himmler's liaison officer at Hitler's headquarters, attempts to persuade Hitler to flee, but Hitler insists that he will win or die in Berlin. SS doctor Obersturmbannführer Ernst-Günther Schenck is ordered to leave Berlin in Operation Clausewitz, but persuades an SS general to let him stay in Berlin. In the streets, Hitler Youth Peter Kranz's father approaches his son's unit and tries to persuade him to leave. Peter, who destroyed two enemy tanks, calls his father a coward.
At a meeting in the Führerbunker, Hitler forbids the overwhelmed 9th Army to retreat, instead ordering Obergruppenführer Felix Steiner's units to mount a counter-attack. The generals find the orders impossible and irrational. Above ground, Hitler awards Peter the Iron Cross, hailing him as braver than his generals. In his office, Hitler talks to armaments minister Albert Speer about his scorched earth policy. Speer is concerned about the destruction of Germany's infrastructure, but Hitler believes the German people are weak and deserve death. Hitler's companion Eva Braun holds a party in the Reich Chancellery. Her brother-in-law Fegelein tries to persuade Eva to leave Berlin with Hitler, but she refuses.
On the battlefield, General Helmuth Weidling is informed he will be executed for allegedly ordering a retreat. Weidling comes to the Führerbunker to clear himself. His action impresses Hitler, who promotes him to oversee all of Berlin's defences. At another meeting, Hitler learns that Steiner did not attack because his unit lacked sufficient force. Hitler becomes enraged at this, and launches into a furious tirade, shouting that everyone has failed him, and denouncing his generals as cowards and traitors. He acknowledges that the war is lost, but says that he would rather commit suicide than leave Berlin.
Schenck witnesses old men being executed by German Feldgendarmerie for refusing to take part in the fighting. Hitler receives a message from Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring, requesting state leadership for himself. Hitler declares Göring a traitor, ordering his dismissal and arrest. Speer makes a final visit to the Führerbunker, and admits that he has defied orders to destroy Germany's infrastructure. Hitler, however, does not punish Speer, who decides to leave Berlin. Peter returns to find his unit dead and runs back home. Hitler continues to imagine ways for Germany to turn the tide. At dinner, Hitler learns of Himmler's secret negotiations. This sends him into another rage, and he orders Himmler's execution. He discovers that Fegelein has deserted his post, and has him executed despite Eva's pleas. SS physician Obergruppenführer Ernst-Robert Grawitz asks Hitler's permission to evacuate for fear of Allied reprisal. Hitler refuses, leading Grawitz to kill himself and his family.
The Red Army continues its advance as Berlin's supplies run low and German morale plummets. Hitler hopes that the 12th Army, led by Lieutenant General Walther Wenck, will save Berlin. After midnight, Hitler dictates his last will and testament to Junge, before marrying Eva. The following morning, Hitler learns that the 12th Army is unable to relieve Berlin. Refusing surrender, Hitler plans his death. He administers poison to his dog Blondi, bids farewell to the bunker staff, and commits suicide with Eva. They are cremated with petrol in a ditch in the Chancellery garden.
Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels assumes the Chancellorship. General Hans Krebs fails to negotiate a conditional surrender with Soviet Marshal Georgy Zhukov. Goebbels declares that Germany will not surrender. Goebbels' wife Magda poisons their six children with cyanide, before committing suicide with Goebbels; Weidling announces unconditional surrender of German forces in Berlin. Many officials and soldiers including Krebs commit suicide after learning of Germany's defeat. Peter discovers that his parents were executed. Junge tries to flee the city; Peter joins her and they slip through Soviet soldiers before finding a bicycle and leaving Berlin.
