Title: Toy Story 2
Rank: 509
Year: 1999
Rating: 7.9
Plot: Woody and Buzz Lightyear are now the co-leaders of Andy's toys. Andy is preparing to take Woody to cowboy camp, but accidentally rips Woody's arm during playtime, choosing to leave him behind on the shelf. After having a nightmare about Andy throwing him away, Woody discovers Wheezy, a toy penguin who has been left on the shelf after his squeaker broke. Andy's mother takes Wheezy down to her yard sale. Woody saves Wheezy, but is stolen by a greedy toy collector named Al McWhiggin. Buzz fails to rescue Woody, but picks up two vital clues: a feather from a chicken suit and the number plate of the car, both of which help Andy's toys realize who stole Woody.
At Al's apartment, Woody meets a cowgirl named Jessie, a horse named Bullseye, and Stinky Pete, who is the Prospector: all toys based on the main characters from Woody's Roundup, a TV show that was popular in the 1950s. Woody also learns that he and the Roundup gang are to be sold to a toy museum in Japan; he states he cannot go because he needs to go home to Andy, earning resentment from Jessie. Al accidentally rips Woody's arm off. When Woody tries to retrieve it and escape, his attempt fails when Al's television turns on. The next morning, Woody is repaired and still desires to go home to Andy; however, he soon learns that Jessie was once owned by a girl named Emily who eventually lost interest in and abandoned her. Fearing that Andy will do the same, Woody decides to stay with the gang to go to Japan.
Meanwhile, Buzz has enlisted the help of Slinky Dog, Mr. Potato Head, Rex, and Hamm to rescue Woody. They reach Al's Toy Barn, where Buzz is imprisoned by a new Utility Belt Buzz Lightyear toy, who, like when the original Buzz arrived, believes himself to be a real space ranger. Andy's toys mistake Utility Belt Buzz for Andy's Buzz and he thinks they are on a mission to defeat his nemesis, the Evil Emperor Zurg. Utility Belt Buzz leads the toys by hiding in Al's bag while Andy's Buzz escapes and follows the gang to Al's apartment, unintentionally releasing a toy Zurg, who also believes he is the real Zurg and follows Andy's Buzz in order to destroy him.
Both Buzzes and the group of Andy's toys arrive at Al's apartment; Andy's Buzz tries to persuade Woody to come home, but Woody remains adamant that life in the museum would be better than potential abandonment by Andy, devastating the Buzzes and the group of Andy's toys. Woody soon has a change of heart, and asks the Roundup gang to come with him and experience playtime from Andy. However, Pete prevents them from leaving, revealing he had previously sabotaged Woody's escape. Al takes the roundup gang to the airport. The Buzzes and the gang give chase but are confronted by Zurg, who engages Utility Belt Buzz and reveals he is his father. Andy's toys bid farewell to Utility Belt Buzz and Zurg, and chase Al using a Pizza Planet truck while being accompanied by three Little Green Men. At the airport, Pete rips Woody's arm again, but the toys subdue Pete and place him in a little girl's backpack.
Woody and Bullseye escape, but Jessie is placed in the plane to Japan. Buzz, Woody, and Bullseye work together to save Jessie, and the whole gang returns to Andy's house. After Woody's arm is fixed, the toys learn that Al has suffered financially after losing the Roundup gang. Wheezy has also had his squeaker fixed, much to his delight. Woody tells Buzz that he no longer fears Andy losing interest in him and that even if it does happen, he and Buzz will be friends "for infinity and beyond".
