Title: Midnight in Paris
Rank: 789
Year: 2011
Rating: 7.7
Plot: In 2010, successful but disillusioned screenwriter Gil Pender and his fiancée Inez vacation in Paris with Inez's wealthy, Republican parents. Gil, struggling to finish his debut novel about a man who works in a nostalgia shop, finds himself drawn to the rich artistic history of Paris, especially the Lost Generation of the 1920s, and has ambitions to move there, which Inez dismisses.
By chance, they meet Inez's friend Paul and his wife Carol, whom Inez invites to go sightseeing with them. Paul speaks with great authority but questionable accuracy on every subject they encounter, annoying Gil but impressing Inez.
Intoxicated after a night of wine tasting, Gil decides to walk back to their hotel, while Inez goes with Paul and Carol by taxi. At midnight, a 1920s car pulls up beside Gil and delivers him to a party for Jean Cocteau, attended by other notable people of the 1920s Paris art scene. 
Zelda Fitzgerald, bored, encourages her husband Scott and Gil to leave with her. They head to a cafe where they run into Ernest Hemingway and Juan Belmonte. After Zelda and Scott leave, Gil and Hemingway discuss writing, and Hemingway offers to show Gil's novel to Gertrude Stein. As Gil leaves to fetch his manuscript, he returns to 2010; the cafe is now a laundromat.
The next night, Gil tries to share the experience with Inez, but she leaves before midnight. After returning to the '20s, Gil accompanies Hemingway to visit Gertrude Stein, where she is negatively critiquing Pablo Picasso’s new painting of his lover Adriana. Gil is instantly drawn to Adriana, a costume designer who has also had affairs with Amedeo Modigliani and Georges Braque. Stein reads aloud the first line of Gil’s novel, praises it, and admits she has always had a longing for the past, especially the Belle Époque.
Gil continues to time travel for the next couple of nights. Inez grows jaded with Paris and Gil's constant disappearing, while her father grows suspicious and hires a private detective to follow him. 
Adriana leaves Picasso and continues to bond with Gil, who is conflicted by his attraction to her. Gil explains his situation to Salvador Dalí, Man Ray, and Luis Buñuel; as surrealists, they do not question his claim of coming from the future. Gil later suggests the plot of The Exterminating Angel to Buñuel, which he doesn't understand.
While Inez and her parents travel to Mont Saint Michel, Gil meets Gabrielle, an antique dealer and fellow admirer of the Lost Generation. He later finds Adriana's diary at a book stall, which reveals that she was in love with Gil and dreamed of being gifted earrings by him before making love to him. He tries to steal a pair of Inez's earrings for her, but is thwarted by her early return to the hotel room.
Gil buys earrings for Adriana and returns to the past. After he gives her the earrings, a horse-drawn carriage arrives, transporting them to the Belle Époque, an era Adriana considers Paris's Golden Age. 
Gil and Adriana go to the Moulin Rouge where they meet Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Paul Gauguin, and Edgar Degas, whom all agree that Paris’ best era was the Renaissance. 
Adriana is offered a job designing ballet costumes; thrilled, she proposes to Gil that they stay, but Gil, observing the unhappiness of Adriana and the other artists, realizes that chasing nostalgia is fruitless because the present is always "a little unsatisfying." Adriana decides to stay, and they part ways.
Gil rewrites the first two chapters of his novel and retrieves his draft from Stein, who praises him but questions why the main character has not realized that his fiancée, based on Inez, is having an affair with a character based on Paul.
Gil returns to 2010 and confronts Inez. She admits to having slept with Paul, but disregards it as a meaningless fling. Gil breaks up with her and decides to move to Paris. While walking by the Seine at midnight, Gil encounters Gabrielle. As it begins to rain, he offers to walk her home, and learns that they share a love for Paris in the rain.
