Title: October Sky
Rank: 685
Year: 1999
Rating: 7.8
Plot: In October 1957, news of the Soviet Union's launch of Sputnik 1 reaches the town of Coalwood, West Virginia, where most male residents work in the coal mines. As the townspeople gather outside to see the satellite orbit across the sky, Homer Hickam is inspired to build his own rockets to escape the tedium of Coalwood. His family and classmates do not respond kindly, especially his father John, the mine superintendent, who wants Homer to join him in the mines.
Homer teams up with math geek Quentin Wilson, who shares an interest in aerospace engineering; with the support of friends Roy Lee Cooke and Sherman O'Dell, and their science teacher at Big Creek High School, Miss Freida J. Riley, the four construct small rockets. While their first launches fail, they experiment with new fuels and designs. When one of their rockets lands near the mine and nearly injures some workers, John angrily tells Homer not to let him catch him on company property with any rockets again. The boys hike 8 miles to the edge of the coal company's property, where they find "Cape Coalwood" and eventually succeed with the help of some local townsfolk, including the mine's machine shop manager, Ike Bykovsky, who is punished by John for helping the boys and sent to work in the mine.
The rocket launches begin attracting townsfolk from Coalwood and the local paper runs a story about the boys. Afterward, they are accused of starting a wildfire with a stray rocket and are arrested. After John picks up Homer, Roy Lee is beaten by his abusive stepfather, Vernon. John intervenes and rescues Roy Lee, warning Vernon that he will protect Roy Lee as Roy Lee's late father would have. In the aftermath of the arrest, the dejected boys abandon rocketry, destroying their launch site. In a mining accident, John is injured rescuing others, and Bykovsky is killed, devastating Homer. Homer drops out of high school to work in the mine and provide for his family while his father recovers, and continues working even when John is able to return to work.
Homer is soon inspired by Miss Riley to read a book she had given him on applied rocket science, learning to calculate the trajectory of a rocket. Using this, he and Quentin locate their missing rocket and prove it could not have caused the fire. The boys present their findings to Miss Riley and the school principal, Mr. Turner, who determines the cause was a flare from a nearby airfield. Homer tells his father he is returning to high school and no longer wants to work in the mine, expressing a desire to go into space. The boys return to rocketry and win the school science fair. When the opportunity arises for one of them to participate in the National Science Fair in Indianapolis, they elect Homer. The miner's union goes on strike against the coal company, angering John. While the family eats dinner, Vernon shoots into the kitchen but misses John, who dismisses his family's fears, leading to a heated argument with Homer. With the mines set to close and resenting his father's pressures, Homer storms out of the house, vowing never to return.
At the national science fair, Homer's display is well-received, and he enjoys popularity and some sightseeing. Overnight, someone steals his machined rocket part model – the de Laval nozzle – and his autographed picture of Dr. Wernher von Braun. Homer makes an urgent phone call home to his mother Elsie, who implores John to end the ongoing strike so that Mr. Bolden, Bykovsky's replacement, can use the machine shop to build a replacement nozzle. John relents when Elsie, fed up with his lack of support for their son, threatens to leave him. With the town's support and replacement parts quickly sent to Indianapolis by bus, the boys win the top prize and Homer is bombarded with college scholarship offers. He is also congratulated by Von Braun himself, though not realizing his idol's identity.
Homer returns to Coalwood as a hero and visits Miss Riley, who is dying of Hodgkin's lymphoma. Preparing for the launch of their largest rocket yet, Homer approaches his father and asks him to come, and then tells him that Von Braun is brilliant, but is not his hero--implying John is his true idol. At the launch of their rocket, which is named for Miss Riley, almost all of Coalwood turns out to watch. John shows up at the last moment and is given the honor of pushing the launch button. The Miss Riley reaches an altitude of 30,000 feet (9,100 m) – higher than the summit of Mount Everest. As the town looks up to the skies, John slowly puts his hand on Homer's shoulder and smiles, finally showing Homer that he is proud of him.
An epilogue, using home movie footage, reveals the real-life outcomes of the main characters' lives, noting that Miss Riley died of her illness, the mine eventually closed, and all four Rocket Boys went to college, going on to have successful careers, with Homer eventually working at NASA.
