Title: Sholay
Rank: 334
Year: 1975
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Jai and Veeru are small-time crooks who are released from prison, where they are recruited by a former Inspector Thakur Baldev Singh to capture a notorious dacoit named Gabbar Singh wanted for ₹50,000, as the duo had saved Thakur from a train robbery which makes Thakur to recruit them for the mission with an additional ₹20,000 reward. The duo leave for Thakur's village in Ramgarh, where Gabbar is residing and terrorizing the villagers.
After reaching Ramgarh, Veeru falls for Basanti, a feisty talkative horse-cart driver. Jai meets Thakur's widowed daughter-in-law Radha and falls for her, who later accepts his feelings. The two thwarts Gabbar's dacoits, who came to extort money. During the festival of Holi, Gabbar's gang attacks the villagers where they corner Jai and Veeru, but the duo manage to attack and chase them away from the village. The duo are upset at Thakur's inaction (when Jai and Veeru were cornered, Thakur had a gun within his reach, but does not help them) and consider calling off the mission. Thakur reveals that few years ago, Gabbar had killed his family members (except Radha), and had both his arms cut off, where he concealed the dismemberment by always wearing a shawl, which is the sole reason why he could not use the gun.
Realizing this, Jai and Veeru take an oath that they will capture Gabbar alive. After learning the duo's heroics, Gabbar kills the local imam Rahim Chacha's son Ahmed and forces the villagers to make Jai and Veeru surrender to him. The villagers refuse and instead get the duo to kill few of Gabbar's henchmen. Gabbar retaliates by having his men capture Veeru and Basanti. Jai arrives and attacks the hideout, where the trio are able to flee Gabbar's hideout with dacoits in pursuit. Shooting from behind a rock, Jai and Veeru nearly run out of ammunition. Unaware that Jai was wounded in the gunfight, Veeru is forced to leave for more ammunition and also to drop Basanti at a safe place.
Jai sacrifices himself by using his last bullet to ignite dynamite sticks on a bridge from close range, killing Gabbar's men. Veeru returns, and Jai dies, leaving Radha and Veeru devastated. Enraged, Veeru attacks Gabbar's den and kills his remaining men where he catches Gabbar and nearly beats him to death. Thakur appears and reminds Veeru of the vow to hand over Gabbar alive. Thakur uses his spike-soled shoes to severely injure Gabbar and his hands. The police arrive and arrest Gabbar for his crimes. After Jai's funeral, Veeru leaves Ramgarh and finds Basanti waiting for him on the train.
