Title: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Rank: 481
Year: 2004
Rating: 7.9
Plot: While Harry is living with the Dursleys, Aunt Marge comes to visit. When he and his late parents are insulted by Marge, an angry Harry accidentally inflates her. Harry packs up his stuff and leaves the house, choosing to spend the summer at the Leaky Cauldron inn in London. While there, Harry is warned that a former follower of Voldemort, named Sirius Black, is seeking him out after having escaped from the wizard prison, Azkaban.
At Hogwarts, the guards of Azkaban, known as the Dementors, patrol the school looking for Black. Harry is unusually affected by their presence, and asks help from Remus Lupin, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, in learning to repel them. Lupin teaches Harry the incredibly difficult Patronus charm, but Harry is able to produce a full-bodied Patronus to fight off the Dementors. Meanwhile, Black is reported to have been sighted in the village of Hogsmeade, close to Hogwarts. 
Harry is given a secret map by Fred and George Weasley, which reveals everyone inside the castle and its grounds. Harry uses it to sneak into Hogsmeade without permission. Hiding inside a pub, he overhears a conversation in which he learns that Black is actually his godfather, and that he killed his own best friend, Peter Pettigrew, while also betraying Harry's father, James, to Voldemort. 
Harry, Ron and Hermione visit Hagrid, and are surprised to find Ron's missing pet rat, Scabbers, hiding there. As they walk back to the castle with Scabbers, Ron is attacked by a large dog. The dog drags Ron into a secret tunnel and disappears, coming out on the other side, inside the Shrieking Shack in Hogsmeade. The dog is revealed to be Black in his Animagus form. 
Harry and Hermione reach the Shack, followed by Lupin, who spots them on Harry's map. Lupin disarms Harry, then explains why he believes Black to be innocent. Black claims that the crimes attributed to him were actually committed by Pettigrew, who escaped suspicion by faking his own death. Pettigrew is also an Animagus, and has been hiding as Ron's rat Scabbers this whole time. Harry suggests handing Pettigrew over to the Dementors. 
While walking back to the castle, the full moon suddenly emerges and Lupin, secretly a werewolf, starts transforming. Black turns into the dog to protect the others, and Pettigrew escapes amid the chaos. Harry, Hermione and Black are accosted by Dementors, and Black ends up being captured.
While Black is held captive inside a tower in Hogwarts, Dumbledore confirms with Harry and Hermione that he is indeed innocent. He instructs them to save Black, by going back in time and setting him free, before he is handed over to the Dementors. Using a Time Turner, which Hermione has had since the beginning of the year to get to all her classes, they travel back a few hours. Present-day Harry saves his past self, and the past versions of Hermione and Black from Dementors using a Patronus. He then allows Black to be captured by Snape, before using Hagrid's hippogriff, Buckbeak, to release him from the tower and escape. 
The next day, Lupin is forced to resign as his secret identity as a werewolf is now known to the school. Harry is upset at not spending more time with his godfather, Black, but Dumbledore asks him to take comfort in having saved his life. On the train journey back to London, Harry receives a letter from Black, who also sends a replacement pet owl for Ron.
