Title: Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India
Rank: 298
Year: 2001
Rating: 8.1
Plot: The farmers of Champaner village in the Central India Agency depend on monsoon rains for their livelihood. A delayed start to the monsoon has them worried and they head to the ruling British cantonment, to ask the King of Champaner, Puran Singh for an exemption from the year's land tax (Lagaan). 
A cricket match is underway between British officers. A young farmer named Bhuvan, provokes them by calling cricket a "childish game". Following the match, the local Raja (king) rejects the farmers' plea, but Andrew Russell, the captain of the British regiment, steps in. He offers a wager in exchange for the farmers playing against his team in a match of cricket. Should they win, he would cancel their tax for the next two years. Bhuvan is made to decide for the village, and agrees when Andrew raises the stakes. 
The village elders are nervous at the prospect of losing the game and being required to pay triple the usual tax. Bhuvan refuses to apologise to Andrew or retract his decision, so the match must be played. Andrew's sister, Elizabeth, takes pity on the farmers. She offers to teach them the game in the interest of fairness. Bhuvan starts gathering a team of players for the match. 
An unruly competitor, named Lakha, is part of Bhuvan's team. He has a grudge with him for their common interest in Gauri, daughter of the village medic. He informs Andrew of his sister's actions. Andrew forbids Elizabeth from leaving the cantonment. He is unaware that she has grown attached to the farmers and is also developing romantic feelings for Bhuvan. She continues sneaking out with the aid of local staff, and even attends a village festival. Gauri, who is secretly in love with Bhuvan, starts to grow envious of her.
The match-day dawns and the ground fills with spectators from neighbouring villages. The British team bat first (see also: Rules of cricket). The farmers must score one run more than the British before the match ends in three days. Smith and Burton begin well, with Smith getting a reprieve due to a Deva no-ball. However, the farmers fight back with Bhura running Smith out and Goli bowling out Burton. Andrew and Brooks bat well and end the day at 182/2. The farmers find out about Lakha's betrayal and he is almost killed, before Bhuvan saves him. Lakha takes a diving catch to dismiss Brooks on the second day.  Their inexperience shows, however, as their batsmen start getting dismissed early on while playing rashly. Bhuvan steadies the innings and takes the match into the third day. On the final morning, the farmers must achieve the score with weak batsmen remaining. Bhuvan plays sensibly, and the match enters the last over. Kachra, the striking player, scores one run off the last ball, but it is not enough to win. The British field umpire signals a no-ball (illegal delivery), causing it to be replayed. Bhuvan scores six runs off the next ball and wins the match for the farmers. 
Elizabeth rushes to the grounds to find Bhuvan. She is heartbroken when she sees him tightly embracing Gauri, and returns to the cantonment. In the next few weeks, the British Empire orders disbandment of the regiment for the humiliation caused by losing to commoners. The tax collection is cancelled for three years, and Andrew is relocated to Central Africa for his improper management of the Treasury's funds. As her caravan departs, Elizabeth steps out to meet the villagers for the last time. Bhuvan remains unaware of her feelings for him, but thanks her for her help. She bids the villagers farewell and returns to England, choosing to remain unmarried, while Bhuvan marries Gauri in a grand ceremony in the village.
