Title: Paris, Texas
Rank: 250
Year: 1984
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Travis Henderson is seen wandering through the West Texas desert, bewildered and holding an empty gallon water jug. He wanders into a convenience store, opens a freezer, and starts eating ice before losing consciousness. A German doctor examines Travis and discovers that he is mute. The doctor goes through Travis's wallet and finds a card with a phone number on it. He calls the number, which belongs to Walt Henderson, Travis's brother.
Walt makes the journey from Los Angeles to Terlingua, Texas, to pick up Travis, who he had presumed was dead after not hearing from him for several years. Walt's wife Anne is slightly troubled by this, since she and Walt had adopted Travis's son, Hunter, as Hunter's biological mother Jane had been out of his life for years. Walt arrives in Terlingua and finds Travis wandering miles down the road from the clinic.
The two brothers begin their road trip back to Los Angeles. Walt grows increasingly frustrated with Travis's muteness and confronts him about his disappearance and abandonment of Hunter. At the mention of Hunter, Travis begins to cry, but still does not speak. The following day, Travis finally begins to speak and produces a photo of a plot of land, explaining to Walt that he purchased a property in Paris, Texas.
The brothers arrive in Los Angeles and Travis is reunited with Hunter. Hunter has little recollection of his father and is initially timid around him. Walt shows Hunter old home videos of them and Jane, and, after much persistence by Travis, Hunter begins to grow comfortable around his father. Anne tells Travis in confidence that Jane deposits monthly payments into a bank account for Hunter, and that the bank is in Houston. Travis becomes immediately determined to find Jane, and tells Hunter that he has to leave the following night. Hunter tells Travis that he wants to accompany him, though they do not have the permission of Walt and Anne.
Travis and Hunter embark on a road trip to Houston, with the two of them bonding and growing closer. They finally arrive at the bank on the day of the expected deposit and make a plan to locate Jane's car. Hunter spots Jane making a drive-in deposit, and the two follow her car to a peep show club where she works. Travis goes inside while Hunter waits in the car. The peep show is designed so that customers sit on one side of a one-way mirror with a telephone intercom to the performer. When Jane enters the room, Travis is unable to speak, and soon leaves without saying more than a few words to her. Travis is angry, driving to a bar and drinking while Hunter complains.
The following day, Travis drops Hunter off at the Meridian Hotel and goes back to Jane's workplace. He goes to Jane's room, this time turning his chair so it faces away from her. On the phone, he tells her a vague story about a man and a younger woman who met, quickly fell in love with each other, got married, and had a child. Jane is initially confused, but soon realizes that it is Travis on the phone. He tells her that after the child was born, the wife suffered from postpartum depression, becoming irritable and yearning for an escape. She would have dreams about running naked down a highway, but just as she was about to finally leave, he would appear and stop her. The now-alcoholic husband, fearing his wife's departure, tied a cowbell to her foot so he would be able to hear if she left in the night. On one night, the wife—having stuffed socks in the cowbell to muffle the sound—successfully snuck out, though the husband caught her and dragged her back home. He tied her to a stove with his belt and went to bed. When he woke up, the house was on fire and the wife and child were gone.
Jane turns the light off on her side and finally sees Travis. She expresses pain and regret over missing Hunter's childhood. Travis tells Jane that Hunter is in Houston waiting for her, and gives her Hunter's room number at the Meridian Hotel. That night, Jane and Hunter are reunited while Travis watches from the parking lot. Travis gets into his car and drives away, smiling to himself.
