Title: Deadpool
Rank: 355
Year: 2016
Rating: 8
Plot: Wade Wilson ambushes Ajax and a convoy of his men on an expressway. Throughout the ambush, Wilson shows the viewer the events leading to how he became Deadpool. After being dishonorably discharged as a Canadian special forces operative, Wilson works as a freelance mercenary until he meets a prostitute named Vanessa. They become romantically involved, and a year later she accepts his marriage proposal. Wilson is later diagnosed with terminal cancer, though, and he leaves Vanessa without warning so she will not have to watch him die.
A mysterious recruiter approaches Wilson and offers him an experimental treatment for his cancer. He is taken to a laboratory run by Ajax and Angel Dust, who inject him with a serum designed to awaken latent mutant genes in his body. They subject Wilson to days of torture to trigger any mutation he may have, without success. When Wilson discovers Ajax's real name is Francis and mocks him for it, Ajax leaves Wilson in a hypobaric chamber that periodically takes him to the verge of asphyxiation over the weekend. This finally activates a regenerative healing factor that counteracts Wilson's cancer, but leaves him severely disfigured with burn-like scars over his entire body. He escapes from the chamber and attacks Ajax, but relents when told that his disfigurement can be cured. In the chaos, Ajax subdues Wilson and leaves him for dead in the now-burning laboratory.
Wilson survives due to his new healing abilities and seeks out Vanessa. He does not reveal to her that he is alive out of fear that she will reject his new appearance. After consulting with his best friend Weasel, Wilson decides to hunt down Ajax for the cure. He becomes a masked vigilante, adopting the name "Deadpool" (from Weasel picking him in a dead pool), and moves into the home of an elderly blind woman named Al. Over the course of the next year, he questions and murders many of Ajax's associates until one, the recruiter, reveals Ajax's whereabouts. This information allows Deadpool to enact the ambush. He kills all of Ajax's henchmen, subdues Ajax himself, and demands the cure, but the X-Man Colossus and his trainee Negasonic Teenage Warhead interrupt him. Colossus attempts to convince Deadpool to mend his ways and join the X-Men, but Deadpool turns him down. Taking advantage of this distraction, Ajax escapes and regroups with Angel Dust. The two of them then head to Weasel's bar, where Ajax hears of Vanessa.
Ajax kidnaps Vanessa and takes her to a decommissioned helicarrier in a scrapyard. In response Deadpool convinces Colossus and Negasonic to help him get her back. They battle Angel Dust and a group of Ajax's men, while Deadpool fights his way to Ajax. During the battle, Negasonic accidentally destroys the equipment stabilizing the helicarrier. Deadpool protects Vanessa as the ship collapses all around them, while Colossus carries Negasonic and Angel Dust to safety. Ajax attacks Deadpool again, but is overpowered. He reveals a cure never existed to begin with, and despite Colossus's pleas, Deadpool kills Ajax, though he does promise Colossus that he will try to be more heroic moving forward. Vanessa then angrily berates Wilson for leaving her, but she reconciles with him after she sees his disfigured face and learns the real reason why he never came back to her.
In a post credits scene, Deadpool imitates the post credits scene of Ferris Bueller's Day Off, stating they only have enough money left to announce that Cable will show up in the sequel.
