Title: Hell or High Water
Rank: 938
Year: 2016
Rating: 7.6
Plot: In West Texas, brothers Toby and Tanner Howard rob two branches of the Texas Midlands Bank, then switch car and bury their getaway car in a pit with a backhoe. Though the robberies are well-planned, Tanner's wild nature leads him to take unnecessary risks, frustrating Toby. Their mother has died after a long illness, leaving their ranch in debt because of a reverse mortgage provided by the Texas Midlands Bank, which would lead to foreclosure if not settled. Meanwhile, oil has been discovered on their land, and Toby is determined to ensure a comfortable life for his estranged sons.
Two Texas Rangers, Marcus Hamilton and Alberto Parker, are assigned to the case. Hamilton, who is close to retirement, investigates the robberies and quickly determines the robbers' methods and personalities. Meanwhile, Tanner robs another bank, unbeknownst to Toby who sits at a nearby diner. They then launder the stolen money in Oklahoma at an Indian casino, where Toby has the casino convert their "winnings" into a check made out to the Texas Midlands Bank. With untraceable funds, the brothers head back to Texas.
After staking out another branch of the Texas Midlands Bank without success, Hamilton figures a pattern to the bank robberies. Determining the next target, he and Parker head there. Pressed for time, the brothers proceed with the heist despite the bank being crowded. A shootout ensues with a security guard and an armed civilian, causing Tanner to kill both of them. During the escape, Toby is shot in the back.
The brothers race out of town with the local posse in pursuit. After gaining some distance, Tanner stops and fires an automatic weapon at the posse, forcing them to retreat. The brothers then split up; Toby takes the money using another vehicle, while Tanner acts as bait. He draws the lawmen to a desert mountain ridge where he takes potshots at the police with a rifle, killing Parker in the process. Distraught, Hamilton uses a local resident’s knowledge of the area to circle behind Tanner and fatally shoot him.
Meanwhile, Toby passes through a police checkpoint without incident. He launders the stolen cash at a casino, where he sees the news report of his brother's death. He takes the casino's check to the bank just in time to avoid the ranch's foreclosure and deeds the ranch into a family trust.
Following his retirement, Hamilton visits his former office and learns that Toby has been cleared as a suspect, as he has no criminal record. Besides, he has no motive since his new oil wells earn more in a month than the total stolen in all of the robberies together. The money from the ranch's oil wells is deposited at the Texas Midlands Bank, which refuses to cooperate with the investigation for fear of losing management of the family's trust fund. Despite the lack of evidence, Hamilton remains certain that Toby was the mastermind behind the robberies.
Hamilton confronts Toby at the ranch and demands to know the reason behind the robberies. Toby explains that he has resolved to not let poverty affect his sons as it did Tanner and him. Hamilton tells Toby he holds him responsible for the death of Parker, and the tension rises. They are interrupted, though, when Toby's ex-wife and children arrive, revealing that Toby gave the ranch to his children rather than keep it for himself. As Hamilton departs, Toby suggests they meet again soon to "finish the conversation" Hamilton agrees.
