Title: Barry Lyndon
Rank: 253
Year: 1975
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Part I: By What Means Redmond Barry Acquired the Style and Title of Barry Lyndon
In 1750s Ireland, Redmond Barry's father is killed in a duel. Barry becomes infatuated with his cousin Nora Brady, and shoots her suitor British Army captain John Quin in a duel. He flees but is robbed by highwaymen on his way to Dublin. Penniless, Barry enlists in the British Army. Family friend Captain Grogan informs him that Quin is not dead: the duel was staged so that Nora's family can get rid of Barry and improve their finances through her marriage to Quin.

Barry serves with his regiment in Germany in the Seven Years' War, but deserts after Grogan is fatally wounded in a skirmish against the French Royal Army. Masquerading as a British lieutenant, he has a brief affair with Frau Lieschen, a peasant woman. On his way to Bremen, Barry encounters the Prussian Captain Potzdorf, who sees through his ruse and impresses him into the Prussian Army. Barry later saves Potzdorf's life and receives commendation from Frederick the Great.

At the end of the war, Barry is employed by Potzdorf's uncle in the Prussian Ministry of Police. The Prussians suspect the Chevalier de Balibari, a professional gambler, of spying for the Austrians, and have Barry become his servant. Barry confides everything to the Chevalier, a fellow Irishman, and they become confederates. After they cheat the Prince of Tübingen at cards, the Prince refuses to pay his debts, and the Chevalier in turn demands satisfaction. The Prussians, still suspecting the Chevalier, arrange to have both him and Barry expelled from the country.

Barry and the Chevalier travel across Europe, perpetrating gambling scams, with Barry forcing payment from debtors with sword duels. In Spa, he encounters the beautiful and wealthy Lady Lyndon. He seduces her, and her elderly husband Sir Charles Lyndon dies from apoplexy, induced by Barry's goading and verbal repartee.

Part II: Containing an Account of the Misfortunes and Disasters Which Befell Barry Lyndon
In 1773, Barry marries Lady Lyndon, takes her last name and settles in England. Lord Bullingdon, Lady Lyndon's ten-year-old son by Sir Charles, despises Barry. Barry responds by physically abusing him. The Countess bears Barry a son, Bryan Patrick, but the marriage is unhappy: Barry is openly unfaithful and squanders his wife's wealth while keeping her in seclusion.

A few years later, Barry's mother comes to live with him. She warns him that if Lady Lyndon were to die, Bullingdon would inherit everything, and advises him to obtain a title to protect himself. To this end, he cultivates the influential Lord Wendover and spends large sums of money to ingratiate himself with high society. Bullingdon, now a young adult, disrupts a party Barry throws for Lady Lyndon; he declares his hatred for his stepfather and states that he will leave the family estate as long as Barry remains there. Barry assaults Bullingdon until physically restrained. He becames ostracised by society and plunges further into financial ruin.

An overindulgent father, Barry gifts Bryan a full-grown horse for his ninth birthday, leading to his death in a riding accident. Barry turns to alcohol, while Lady Lyndon seeks solace in religion, assisted by the Rev. Samuel Runt, who had been tutor to Bullingdon and Bryan. Barry's mother dismisses Runt, for fear that his influence will worsen Lady Lyndon's condition. Lady Lyndon attempts suicide. Runt and Graham, the family's steward, then seek out Bullingdon, who returns and challenges Barry to a duel.

After Bullingdon nervously misfires the first shot, Barry magnanimously fires into the ground. Bullingdon refuses to end the duel and shoots Barry in the leg, forcing the leg to be amputated below the knee. While Barry is recovering, Bullingdon takes control of the Lyndon estate. He offers Barry 500 guineas a year on the condition that he leaves England forever. With his credit exhausted, Barry accepts. Barry resumes his gambling profession, though without his former success. In December 1789, a middle-aged Lady Lyndon signs Barry's annuity cheque as her son looks on.


