Title: Chak De! India
Rank: 330
Year: 2007
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Chak De! India opens in Delhi during the final minutes of a Hockey World Cup match between Pakistan and India, with Pakistan leading 1–0. When Indian team captain Kabir Khan is fouled, he takes a penalty stroke. His shot just misses, causing India to lose the match. Soon afterwards, media outlets circulate a photograph of Khan shaking hands and embracing the Pakistani captain. The sporting gesture is misunderstood, and Khan is suspected of throwing the game out of sympathy towards Pakistan. Religious prejudice forces him and his mother to leave town.
Seven years later Mr. Tripathi, the head of India's hockey association, meets with field hockey advocate Uttam Singh to discuss the Indian women's hockey team. According to Tripathi, the team has no future since the only long-term role for women is to "cook and clean". Uttam, however, tells him that Khan wants to coach the team. Initially sceptical, Tripathi agrees to the arrangement.
Khan finds himself in charge of a group of 16 young women divided by their fiercely competitive natures and regional prejudices. Komal Chautala, a village girl from Haryana, clashes with Preeti Sabarwal from Chandigarh; short-tempered Balbir Kaur from Punjab bullies Rani Dispotta and Soimoi Kerketa, who are from remote villages in Jharkhand. Mary Ralte from Mizoram and Molly Zimik, from Manipur in Northeast India, face widespread racial discrimination, and sexual comments from some strangers. Team Captain Vidya Sharma must choose between hockey and the wishes of her husband Rakesh's family, and Preeti's fiancé—Abhimanyu Singh, Vice-Captain of the India national cricket team— brushes off hockey as unimportant to their future as a couple.
Khan realises that he can make the girls winners only if he can help them overcome their differences. During his first few days as coach, he benches several players who refuse to follow his rules—including Bindiya Naik, the most experienced player. In response, Bindiya repeatedly encourages the other players to defy Khan. When she finally succeeds, Khan angrily resigns; however, he invites the staff and team to a farewell lunch at McDonald's. During the lunch, local boys eve tease Mary; Balbir attacks them, triggering a brawl between the boys and the team. Khan, recognising that they are finally acting as one for the first time, prevents the staff from intervening; he only stops a man from hitting one of the women from behind with a cricket bat. After the fight, the women realise Khan's intentions and ask him to remain their coach.
The team faces new challenges. When Tripathi refuses to send the women's team to Australia for the World Cup, Khan proposes a match against the men's team. Although his team loses, their performance inspires Tripathi to send them to Australia after all. Bindiya is upset with Khan for choosing Vidya over her as the captain of the team. Her consequent behaviour results in a 7–0 loss to Australia. When Khan confronts Bindiya about her actions on the field, Bindiya responds by attempting to have sex with Khan, to which he rejects & asks her to stay away from the game. Khan goes on to train the girls again, which is followed by victories over England, Spain, South Africa, New Zealand, and Argentina. Just before their game with South Korea, Khan approaches Bindiya, asking her to begin playing once more and break the strategy of 'Man to Man' marking used by the Korean team so they can win the match. Bindiya goes onto the field and with the help of Gunjan Lakhani manages to beat South Korea and enter the finals.
They are again matched with Australia for the final. Khan urges Komal and Preeti to put aside their differences for the team's sake. Preeti, in order to prove Abhimanyu a point, is determined to finish as the tournament's leading goal scorer. In the final few minutes of the game, the Indian women are trailing 1-2 when Komal passes the ball to Preeti, who scores and pushes the game into penalty shootouts. There, they go down 2-0 initially but come back to win the penalty shootouts 3-2 and thus claim the world cup against all odds. When the team returns home, their families treat them with greater respect and Khan, his good name restored, returns with his mother to their town and ancestral home.
