Title: Man on Fire
Rank: 765
Year: 2004
Rating: 7.7
Plot: In 2003, former CIA SAD/SOG officer John Creasy visits his old friend Paul Rayburn in Mexico. Rayburn convinces him to take a bodyguard position with Samuel Ramos, a Mexico City automaker whose young daughter Lupita "Pita" requires a bodyguard for her kidnapping insurance policy to take effect. 
Struggling with alcoholism, burnout, and guilt over his actions with the CIA, Creasy tries to commit suicide but his gun misfires. He is reminded by Rayburn of their saying "a bullet always tells the truth" and begins to consider that he was not meant to die. Seemingly revitalized, Creasy commits to his newfound purpose as Pita's protector, reducing his drinking and finding comfort in the pages of his Bible. He begins coaching Pita to become a more confident swimmer, bonding with her through the process.
Waiting outside Pita's piano lesson, Creasy recognizes a car that followed them earlier, as two Federal Police officers block the street. Realizing that Pita is about to be abducted, He kills four of the attackers including the officers but is critically wounded and Pita is taken. Creasy is declared a suspect, but reporter Mariana Garcia Guerrero questions the story. AFI agent Miguel Manzano relocates a recovering Creasy to a veterinary clinic to protect him from corrupt police.
"The Voice," leader of the kidnapping ring, demands a $10 million ransom and Samuel complies, with the help of police lieutenant Victor Fuentes. However, the kidnappers are ambushed at the ransom drop and the Voice’s nephew is killed. Holding the Ramos family responsible, the Voice informs them that Pita will be lost to them forever as retribution. Guerrero warns Creasy that the kidnappers belong to a powerful "brotherhood" called La Hermandad that consists of corrupt officials, police, and criminals, but Pita's mother, Lisa, has Creasy promise her to kill everyone involved in Pita's death.
With Rayburn’s help, Creasy obtains a small arsenal of weapons and equipment. He brutally interrogates and kills the getaway driver, who points him to a club where he confronts three of the kidnappers. Killing two criminal middlemen, Creasy recovers an incriminating ATM card and another kidnapped girl. He turns both over to Guerrero, who reveals that Fuentes is part of the brotherhood. Manzano interviews Rayburn, who describes Creasy as an “artist of death”, about to "paint his masterpiece."
Guerrero convinces Manzano to help Creasy wage war against the kidnappers. Waylaying Fuentes’s motorcade with a rocket-propelled grenade, Creasy abducts the officer, who admits that he had his officers ambush the ransom drop, but discovered afterward most of the ransom money had already been stolen by Jordan Kalfus, Samuel's lawyer. After killing Fuentes with a bomb in his rectum, Creasy searches Kalfus’s home and finds his decapitated corpse and a fax with bank account information leading to Samuel.
Creasy confronts the Ramoses, and Samuel confesses that Kalfus suggested they arrange Pita's kidnapping to claim the insurance payout to settle his father's debts, though they were promised Pita would be returned unharmed. When Fuentes interfered with the drop, Samuel blamed Kalfus for Pita's death and murdered him. Lisa, now aware of Samuel's involvement, angrily tells Creasy to kill her husband or she will. He leaves Samuel a gun and the same bullet he attempted suicide with, and a guilt-ridden Samuel commits suicide.
Guerrero and Manzano trace the ATM card to the Voice’s wife and find her address, allowing Manzano's officers to infiltrate her home and obtain a photo of the Voice. Despite the brotherhood’s threats, Guerrero publishes the photo and passes the address on to Creasy. Taking the Voice’s wife and his brother Aurelio prisoner, Creasy is shot in the chest but learns the ringleader’s real name is Daniel Sanchez. He calls him and threatens his family, but Daniel reveals that Pita is alive, offering to trade her for his brother and for Creasy, which he accepts.
Instructing Lisa to join him at the exchange, Creasy reunites with Pita in the middle of an overpass, assuring her that he loves her before sending her to her mother. He and Aurelio are taken by Daniel’s men, but Creasy succumbs to his wounds. Manzano tracks Daniel down later that day and shoots him dead “during the course of arrest.”
