Title: Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith
Rank: 943
Year: 2005
Rating: 7.6
Plot: Orbiting above Coruscant, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker lead a mission to rescue Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from the cyborg Separatist commander General Grievous. After infiltrating Grievous' flagship, Obi-Wan and Anakin battle the Sith Lord Count Dooku, whom Anakin decapitates. Grievous escapes the damaged ship before Obi-Wan and Anakin crash-land it on Coruscant. There, Anakin reunites with Padmé Amidala. Soon after, Anakin has visions of the now-pregnant Padmé dying in childbirth.
Palpatine appoints Anakin to the Jedi Council as his personal representative. The Council agrees, but distrusting Palpatine, refuse to make Anakin a Jedi Master. They instead instruct him to spy on Palpatine, diminishing Anakin's faith in the Jedi. Meanwhile, on Utapau, Grievous relocates the Separatist leaders to the volcanic planet Mustafar. Obi-Wan travels to Utapau where he confronts and kills Grievous, while Yoda travels to the Wookiee planet of Kashyyyk to defend it from a Separatist invasion.
Palpatine tempts Anakin with the dark side of the Force, promising it can save Padmé. Anakin deduces that Palpatine is the Sith Lord behind the Clone Wars and reports his treachery to Mace Windu, who confronts and subdues Palpatine. Desperate to save Padmé, Anakin prevents Windu from killing Palpatine, who then sends Windu falling to his death. Anakin pledges himself to the Sith, and Palpatine knights him as Darth Vader. Palpatine issues Order 66, which commands the clone troopers to kill their commanding Jedi generals across the galaxy, while Vader and a battalion of clone troopers kill the remaining Jedi in the Jedi Temple. Vader travels to Mustafar to assassinate the Separatist leaders, while Palpatine declares himself Emperor before the Galactic Senate, transforming the Republic into the Galactic Empire. He denounces the Jedi as traitors.
Obi-Wan and Yoda return to Coruscant and learn that Anakin has turned to the dark side. Yoda instructs Obi-Wan to confront Vader while he faces Palpatine. Obi-Wan seeks out Padmé to discover Vader's whereabouts and reveals his treachery. Padmé travels to Mustafar—unaware Obi-Wan has stowed aboard her ship—and pleads with Vader to abandon the dark side. When Obi-Wan emerges, an enraged Vader believes Padmé has betrayed him and strangles her. Obi-Wan attacks Vader and their lightsaber duel ends with Obi-Wan severing Vader's legs and left arm. Obi-Wan retrieves Vader's lightsaber before leaving him for dead near a lava flow.
On Coruscant, Yoda battles Palpatine, culminating in a stalemate. Yoda flees with Senator Bail Organa and regroups with Obi-Wan and Padmé on the planetoid Polis Massa. Padmé gives birth to twins, whom she names Luke and Leia. She dies soon after, still believing there is good in Vader. Palpatine recovers a barely-alive Vader. On Coruscant, Vader's badly burned and mutilated body is treated and encased in a black, armored life-support suit. When he asks about Padmé, Palpatine says Vader killed her out of rage, leaving Vader devastated.
Obi-Wan and Yoda conceal the twins' birth from the Sith and retreat into exile until the Empire can be challenged. As Padmé's funeral is underway on Naboo, Palpatine and Vader supervise the construction of the Death Star. Bail takes Leia to Alderaan to raise her as his daughter. Obi-Wan delivers Luke to his step-uncle and step-aunt, Owen and Beru Lars, on Tatooine. Obi-Wan settles nearby as a recluse while watching over young Luke.
