Title: Sweet Smell of Success
Rank: 442
Year: 1957
Rating: 8
Plot: Sidney Falco is a morally bankrupt Manhattan press agent, and a frustrated fringe player. Sidney promises his clients positive publicity in the fashionable newspaper column run by influential media kingpin J.J. Hunsecker. But Hunsecker is overly protective of his younger sister Susan, and asks Sidney to derail her romance with up-and-coming jazz guitarist Steve Dallas. When Sidney fails to do so (in fact the pair become engaged) he finds himself frozen out of Hunsecker's column. 
Sidney is losing money and clients and, desperate to salvage his career, persuades Hunsecker to give him another chance to break up Susie and Steve. Sidney's plan is to plant a rumor in a rival newspaper column that Dallas is a drug user and a Communist, which is enough to get him fired from the jazz club where his combo plays. Hunsecker can then gain points with Susan by defending Dallas and getting him his job back; but Sidney counts on an overly prideful Dallas rejecting a tainted favor.
To get his dirt planted, Sidney attempts to blackmail a prominent columnist by threatening to expose his marital infidelity. Instead, the columnist chooses exposure over compromising his journalistic integrity, a choice even his wife praises as his first decent act in years. Sidney then bribes a second columnist with a sexual favor, to be provided by a cigarette girl with whom he has a friendly relationship. She is in fact waiting for Sidney back at his apartment. When Sidney arrives home with the columnist – suggesting the two "get to know each other", she is outraged but ultimately goes along with his plan.
The next day, the smear appears in the other journalist's column and Dallas's jazz group is fired from the club.
As planned, in Susan's presence Hunsecker theatrically gets Dallas rehired with a phone call, but Dallas still denounces Hunsecker for his malignant influence on society. Forced to choose between them, Susan breaks up with Dallas in an attempt to protect him from her vengeful brother. In spite of this, Hunsecker is so incensed by Dallas's insults, which he twists around to characterize as attacks on his loyal, patriotic audience, that he escalates matters. He orders Sidney to plant marijuana on Dallas and then have him arrested and roughed up by a corrupt police lieutenant, Harry Kello. To swing him round, Hunsecker dangles the offer of Sidney's filling in on his column for three months while he himself takes Susan to Europe to forget about Dallas.
At the jazz club, Sidney slips marijuana cigarettes into the pocket of Dallas's coat. Dallas is accosted by Kello outside the club and beaten so badly he ends up in hospital. Sidney then celebrates at a bar where, surrounded by his industry pals, he toasts to his favorite new perfume, "success".
The festivities are interrupted when Sidney is summoned to Hunsecker's penthouse apartment. Sidney arrives to find Susie in her nightgown; she is distraught about Steve, and is about to jump off the balcony. Sidney stops her in the nick of time, and takes her into her bedroom to rest. Hunsecker then arrives to find Sidney and Susan in what appears to be a compromising position in her bedroom. Hunsecker attacks Sidney and brutally slaps him around. Too late, Sidney realises he has been set up by Susie. Livid, Sidney reveals to Susan that her brother conspired to frame Dallas, before leaving the apartment, telling Hunsecker that nothing can stop him from making the truth public, and that Hunsecker has lost his sister forever. Hunsecker then calls Kello and tells him Dallas is innocent and that Falco planted the evidence, as unbeknown to him Sidney had been trying "to make his sister". As Sidney exits the building he is stopped and beaten by the brutal cop.
Susie packs a bag to leave; when Hunsecker tries to stop her, she says she had contemplated suicide as she would rather be dead than living with him. She is now leaving to be with Dallas. A distraught Hunsecker then watches from the balcony as Susie walks into the coming dawn to start a new life with her lover.
