Title: Rashomon
Rank: 180
Year: 1950
Rating: 8.2
Plot: In Heian-era Kyoto, a woodcutter and a priest, taking shelter from a downpour under the Rashōmon city gate, recount a story of a recent assault and murder. Baffled at the existence of several conflicting accounts of the same event, the woodcutter and the priest are joined by a commoner. The woodcutter claims he had found the body of a murdered samurai three days earlier, alongside the samurai's cap, his wife's hat, cut rope, and an amulet. The priest claims he had seen the samurai travel with his wife on the day of the murder. Both had testified in court, where a witness presented a captured bandit named Tajōmaru.
Tajōmaru testifies that he had followed the couple after spotting them traveling in the woods. He claims to have tricked the samurai to step off the mountain trail with him to look at a cache of ancient swords he had discovered. He then subdued the samurai and attempted to rape his wife, who initially tries to defend herself with a dagger. Tajōmaru seduces her. Afterwards, the wife, ashamed of the dishonor of having been with two men, asks Tajōmaru to duel her husband so she may go with the man who wins. Tajōmaru agrees; the duel is fierce, and Tajōmaru claims to have killed the samurai only to find the wife had fled. At the end of his testimony, Tajōmaru states he had forgotten of the wife's dagger, lamenting its loss. The priest notes that men lie even to themselves because they are weak.
The wife's testimony is different; she claimed that Tajōmaru did assault her but afterwards left immediately. She freed her husband from his bonds, but he stared at her with contempt and loathing. Distressed by his disdain, the wife fainted with the dagger in her hands. She awoke to find her husband dead, having committed suicide with the dagger. In shock, she wandered through the forest until she came upon a pond. She attempted to drown herself, but failed. The commoner notes that women use their tears to hide lies, and end up fooling themselves.
The samurai's testimony is heard through a medium. He claimed that after the assault, Tajōmaru asked the wife to marry him. To the samurai's shame, she accepts, asking Tajōmaru to kill the samurai first. This disgusted Tajōmaru, who then gave the samurai the choice to let her go or have her killed. Through the medium, the samurai expresses approval for this gesture. The wife then broke free and fled, and Tajōmaru unsuccessfully gave chase. After being set free by an apologetic Tajōmaru, the samurai states he committed suicide with his wife's dagger. Later, he felt someone remove the dagger from his chest, but could not tell who.
The woodcutter fiercely proclaims that all three stories are falsehoods and admits that he saw the samurai killed by a sword instead of a dagger. The commoner pressures the woodcutter to admit that he actually had witnessed the events while declining to testify. According to the woodcutter, Tajōmaru begged the wife to marry him. She instead freed her husband, expecting him to kill Tajōmaru. The samurai refused to fight, explaining that he would not risk his life for a ruined woman. Tajōmaru rescinded his promise to marry the wife; the wife rebukes them both for failing to keep their promises. The two men unwillingly enter into a feeble duel that results in Tajōmaru's victory. The woodcutter ends his account by stating that the wife fled afterwards, and that Tajōmaru stole the samurai's sword and limped away.
The woodcutter, the priest, and the commoner are interrupted by the sound of a crying baby. They find a child abandoned in a basket along with a kimono and an amulet; the commoner steals the items, for which he is rebuked by the woodcutter. The commoner overpowers the woodcutter in a scuffle and deduces that the woodcutter refused to testify because he had stolen the wife's dagger. He leaves, claiming that all men and women are motivated only by self-interest.
Meanwhile, the priest has been attempting to soothe the baby. The woodcutter attempts to take the child after the commoner's departure; the priest, having lost his faith in humanity after the trial and the exchange under Rashōmon gate, strongly recoils. The woodcutter explains that he intends to raise the child. Having seen the woodcutter's true and well-meaning intentions, the priest expresses a hope to continue to trust others. As the woodcutter prepares to leave, the rain stops and the clouds part, revealing the sun.
