Title: Singin' in the Rain
Rank: 123
Year: 1952
Rating: 8.3
Plot: In 1927, popular silent film stars Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont attend the premiere of their latest film The Royal Rascal. Though Don can barely tolerate Lina, their studio, Monumental Pictures, links them romantically to increase publicity. Lina is convinced that they truly are in love, despite Don's protestations otherwise. At a red-carpet interview, Don relates the story of his rise to stardom, though his words are contradicted by flashbacks showing his humble roots as a hoofer, Vaudeville musician and stuntman, alongside his best friend from boyhood Cosmo Brown ("Fit as a Fiddle").
After the premiere, Don escapes rabid fans by jumping into a passing car driven by Kathy Selden. Kathy, who claims to be a theater actress, drops him off, but not before deriding his accomplishments as a movie star.
Later, at an after-party, Monumental Pictures head R. F. Simpson, shows a short demonstration of the newfound talking picture. His guests are unimpressed, believing it will never amount to anything. To Don's amusement, Kathy pops out of a mock cake, revealing herself to be a chorus girl ("All I Do is Dream of You"). Furious at Don's teasing, she throws a cake at him, accidentally hitting Lina. Kathy runs away before Don can catch up with her.
Weeks later, Don is still smitten with Kathy and has been searching for her, with Cosmo trying to cheer him up ("Make 'Em Laugh"). Lina reveals that she got Kathy fired. On the studio lot, Cosmo finds Kathy working as an extra in another Monumental Pictures production ("Beautiful Girl"). Kathy admits to actually being a fan of Don's, while Don professes his feelings for her ("You Were Meant for Me").

After rival studio Warner Bros. has an enormous hit with its first talking picture The Jazz Singer, R. F. decides he has no choice but to convert the next Lockwood and Lamont film, The Dueling Cavalier, into a talkie; Lina and Don undertake diction lessons in preparation ("Moses Supposes"). The production is beset with difficulties, including the actors being unfamiliar with the recording technology and Lina's grating, high-pitched voice. Due to multiple complications (including awkward microphone placements, Don's uninspired improvising and the audio going out of sync), The Dueling Cavalier's preview screening is a failure.
Afterward, Kathy and Cosmo help Don come up with the idea to save The Dueling Cavalier by turning it into a musical ("Good Morning"). Cosmo, inspired by the film's synchronization error, suggests they dub Lina's voice with Kathy's. Don drops Kathy off at her home and then walks home through a driving rain. ("Singin' in the Rain"). Don and Cosmo pitch the idea to R. F., changing the title of the film to The Dancing Cavalier and adding a modern framing device ("Broadway Melody"). R. F. approves but tells them not to inform Lina that Kathy is doing the dubbing.
Having learned the truth, a furious Lina barges in on a dubbing session. She becomes even angrier after being told that Don and Kathy are in love and intend to marry, and that R. F. intends to give Kathy a screen credit and a big publicity buildup. Lina threatens to sue R. F. unless he makes sure no one ever hears of Kathy and that she keeps dubbing Lina for the rest of her career. R. F. reluctantly agrees because of a clause in Lina's contract which holds the studio responsible for positive media coverage.
The premiere of The Dancing Cavalier is a success ("Would You"). When the audience clamors for Lina to sing live, Don, Cosmo, and R. F. tell her to lip sync into a microphone while Kathy, concealed behind the curtain, sings into a second one. While Lina is "singing" ("Singin' in the Rain Reprise"), Don, Cosmo and R. F. open the curtain, revealing the ruse. The defeated Lina flees in humiliation. A distressed Kathy tries to run away as well, but Don proudly announces to the audience that she is "the real star" of the film ("You Are My Lucky Star"). Later, Kathy and Don kiss in front of a billboard for their new film Singin' in the Rain.
