Title: Vicky Donor
Rank: 756
Year: 2012
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Dr. Baldev Chaddha is a fertility expert who runs a clinic and a sperm bank in Daryaganj, Delhi that guarantees high-quality sperm for couples. He has more failed cases than successes. He is on the lookout for a healthy and high-performing donor.
Vikram "Vicky" Arora hails from an Arora Punjabi family and is the only son of his widowed mother Dolly, who runs a small beauty parlour in Lajpat Nagar. They live with their grandmother. Vicky is a vagabond who provides no financial support to the household and starts searching for a job that will provide them with a better lifestyle.
Chaddha meets Vicky and likes his happy-go-lucky nature. He believes Vicky is the donor he has been looking for. He stalks him and eventually painstakingly convinces him to become a sperm donor. Though Vicky is hesitant at first, he accepts after receiving a high salary. He hides his career after facing ridicule from his friends, but starts spending wildly, renovating his house and the parlour.
Vicky meets an ambitious accountant Ashima Roy at the bank and they fall in love after going out a number of times. They soon wish to get married, but as a divorced Bengali bank employee wanting to marry a carefree man from a loud Punjabi family, the couple faces backlash from their families eventually managing to get their approval. Vicky continues to hide his occupation, and stops donating sperm after getting married, ignoring Chaddha who continues to chase Vicky as he is his most successful donor.
In an ironic turn, the couple discovers Ashima is infertile. They wish to get both of them tested, but Vicky does not take the fertility test and is forced to admit to being a sperm donor. Taken aback by her husband's strange career, Ashima leaves for her paternal home. Vicky is heartbroken and cuts all ties with Chaddha.
The parlour is soon raided by income tax officers due to their frivolous renovations. Vicky is arrested on suspicion of handling black money but is bailed out by Dr. Chaddha, who reveals his occupation to his family members. Vicky's mother is disgusted and also apologises to Ashima. Vicky's grandmother and Ashima's father make them understand how Vicky's deed has helped many families bear children and ask them to have a progressive take on this.
Chaddha calls Vicky and Ashima to an event he has hosted where all families that Vicky helped bear children are present, and helps Ashima see how his step helped them find happiness. He then tells them that one child is absent. This little girl has lost her parents in an accident. Her grandparents failed to contact Chaddha's clinic and had to send her to orphanage. Dr. Chaddha suggest the couple adopt little girl. Ashima begins to see reason and understands. The couple reunites, adopts the little girl, and Vicky continues to occasionally donate sperm for Chaddha's clinic.
