Title: The Sting
Rank: 125
Year: 1973
Rating: 8.3
Plot: In 1936 Great Depression America, Johnny Hooker, a grifter in Joliet, Illinois, with partners Luther Coleman and Joe Erie, cons $11,000 in cash from an unsuspecting victim. Buoyed by the windfall, Luther decides to retire and tells Hooker to seek out his old friend, Henry Gondorff, in Chicago to learn "the big con". However, corrupt Joliet police lieutenant William Snyder confronts Hooker, revealing that their mark was a courier for vicious Irish-American crime boss Doyle Lonnegan. Lonnegan's men murder both the courier and Luther, and Hooker flees to Chicago (Erie's involvement remains unknown to Lonnegan).
Hooker finds Gondorff, now hiding from the FBI running a carousel (actually a front for a brothel), and asks for his help in taking down Lonnegan. Gondorff, aware of Lonnegan's reputation, is reluctant, but relents and recruits a team of experienced con men. They decide to resurrect an elaborate, obsolete scam known as "the wire", using a large crew to create a phony off-track betting parlor. Both Snyder and Lonnegan's men track Hooker to Chicago; Gondorff warns Hooker that if either of them find him, the con will have to fold.
Aboard the opulent 20th Century Limited, Gondorff, posing as boorish Chicago bookie "Shaw", buys into Lonnegan's private, high-stakes poker game and infuriates Lonnegan with obnoxious behavior, then cheats him out of $15,000. Hooker, posing as Shaw's disgruntled employee "Kelly", is sent to collect the winnings and instead convinces Lonnegan that he wants Lonnegan's help to take over "Shaw"'s operation. Lonnegan, sufficiently roused against "Shaw", takes the bait. Hooker returns home to find Lonnegan's men waiting for him, but avoids their pursuit; Gondorff is spooked by their proximity, but Hooker convinces him to keep the con alive.
Snyder's pursuit of Hooker attracts the attention of undercover FBI agents led by Agent Polk, who orders Snyder to bring Hooker in to entrap Gondorff. At the same time, Lonnegan has grown frustrated with his men's inability to find and kill Hooker for the Joliet con, and orders Salino, his best assassin, be given the job. A mysterious figure with black leather gloves begins following and observing Hooker. 
"Kelly" gives Lonnegan a tip on an 8-to-1 long shot that pays off; when Lonnegan presses him for details, he reveals that he has a partner, "Les Harmon" (actually con man Kid Twist) in the Chicago Western Union office, who will help them topple "Shaw" by winning bets he books on horse races through past-posting. Lonnegan is convinced after being provided the trifecta of another race, and agrees to finance a $500,000 bet to break "Shaw" and get revenge. Shortly thereafter, Snyder captures Hooker and brings him before Polk, who forces Hooker to betray Gondorff by threatening to jail Luther Coleman's widow.
Feeling despondent the night before the sting, Hooker sleeps with a diner waitress named Loretta. The next morning, as she walks toward him in an alley, the black-gloved man appears and shoots her dead. The man reveals that he was hired by Gondorff to protect Hooker and reveals that the waitress was in fact Salino.
Lonnegan bets $500,000 at "Shaw"'s parlor on Lucky Dan to win, at 4-to-1 odds. As the race begins, "Harmon" arrives and expresses shock at Lonnegan's bet: when he said "place it" he meant that Lucky Dan would "place" (i.e., finish second). In a panic, Lonnegan rushes to the teller window and demands his money back, at which point Polk, Snyder, and a half dozen FBI agents storm the parlor. Polk tells Hooker he is free to go; shocked at the betrayal, Gondorff shoots Hooker in the back. Polk shoots Gondorff and orders Snyder to get the ostensibly respectable Lonnegan away from the crime scene. With Lonnegan and Snyder safely away, Hooker and Gondorff rise amid cheers and laughter: "Polk" is actually Hickey, running a con within the con to divert Snyder and ensure that Lonnegan abandons the money and never knows he was taken. As the con men strip the room of its contents, Hooker refuses his share of the money and walks away with Gondorff.
