Title: Bound by Honor
Rank: 519
Year: 1993
Rating: 7.9
Plot: In 1972, Miklo Velka is the 17-year-old son of a Mexican mother and a white American father. After a violent confrontation with his abusive racist father, Miklo leaves Las Vegas for East Los Angeles, where he stays with his cousins, Paco and Cruz. His cousins are in the local Vatos Locos gang, and Miklo earns his membership during an attack on their rivals, the Tres Puntos. Tres Puntos retaliates by attacking Cruz, permanently damaging his back. When Vatos Locos counterattack the next day, Miklo shoots and kills Spider, leader of Tres Puntos. Fleeing the scene, Paco crashes their car and they are both arrested.
The cousins' paths now diverge: Miklo is imprisoned in San Quentin for murder, Paco volunteers for military service in the Marine Corps in lieu of prison, and Cruz continues his passion for art. Due to his back pain, Cruz develops a heroin addiction, leading to the accidental overdose of his 12-year-old brother, Juanito. After the Marines, Paco joins the L.A.P.D.
Miklo finds San Quentin is run by three racially defined prison gangs. The Black Guerrilla Army (B.G.A.) is led by Bonafide, the Aryan Vanguard is led by Red Ryder, and La Onda is led by Montana Segura. Popeye, a high-ranking member of La Onda, tries to rape Miklo at knife-point, but is stopped by Montana, who finds Popeye's intentions dishonorable. Miklo learns that the only way into La Onda is by killing an enemy inmate. Miklo forms a rapport with Aryan Vanguard associate Big Al, then stabs him to death in the prison kitchen. Now initiated, Miklo rises through the La Onda ranks, eventually joining its Ruling Council.
After serving nine years, Miklo is granted parole. On the outside, disgusted by his menial job (as well as theft and blackmail at the hands of his boss), Miklo joins in an armed robbery. The heist goes poorly and Miklo is intercepted by Paco, who tries to appeal to Miklo to surrender his weapon, so that he can help him out of the situation. Miklo instead starts to flee, and Paco then shoots him in the leg. The leg has to be amputated, and Miklo is sent back to prison.
Miklo notices that cocaine use is now rampant, driven by competing supplies from the B.G.A. and Onda council member Carlos. The Aryan Vanguard want to partner with Carlos as his supplier, offering to help Carlos take B.G.A. out of the cocaine business. Montana, fiercely against La Onda being in the drug trade, warns that the Aryan Vanguard want to start a war between the Black and Chicano inmates. The Council votes in agreement with Montana, so Carlos and a few others leave La Onda to work with Aryan Vanguard.
Carlos has his non-inmate brother, Smokey, bomb the B.G.A.'s drug supply hangout in the city. Carlos also kills "Pockets", who is running the B.G.A.'s operation in San Quentin. As Montana warned, the Aryan Vanguard then lets the B.G.A. murder Carlos.
With hostility high between the Blacks and Chicanos, Montana and Bonafide meet in the prison yard. Montana convinces Bonafide to agree to a truce if Montana reaches out to La Onda leaders in other prisons to end the violence. The warden grants Montana special permission to visit the prisons and Miklo is left in charge.
Montana is granted a special request to have his daughter visit him at one of the prisons. Before she arrives, Montana is stabbed to death by a member of the B.G.A. Believing the Aryan Vanguard sent forged orders to the hitman, Paco arranges a peace conference between La Onda and B.G.A., but Miklo uses the talks to build an alliance with B.G.A. and plan the joint killing of Aryan Vanguard leaders. After the Aryan Vanguard are dead, Miklo's men promptly exterminate the B.G.A. leaders as well. A furious Paco confronts Miklo, disowning him forever.
The warden vows to split La Onda's ruling council by sending them to the prisons in other states. Miklo uses this to expand La Onda across the South West. It is later revealed that Magic, not the Aryan Vanguard, sent the forged orders to have B.G.A. kill Montana. This was set up by a reluctant Miklo, who clashed with Montana on the direction that La Onda should take for the gang's future. As Miklo destroys the evidence of their betrayal, Magic (who for a short time bullied Miklo during the latter's first year in prison) swears his life to Miklo as his jefe.
Back in East Los Angeles, Paco visits one of Cruz' murals, showing a portrait of his former life. In a pep talk with Cruz, Paco realizes that by ordering Miklo to go after Spider, Paco is responsible for what Miklo has become. He ultimately forgives Miklo.
