Title: A Woman Under the Influence
Rank: 292
Year: 1974
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Mabel Longhetti, a Los Angeles housewife and mother, sends her three children to spend the night with her mother but is extremely hesitant to do so. She is a heavy drinker and exhibits strange behavior. That night, she meets a man at a bar and he takes her home. Despite her protests, he forces her to dance with him and appears to sexually assault her at the bottom of the stairs. She wakes up the next morning in bed and the man is still there. She is confused and briefly argues with him before he leaves calling him by her husband’s name. Her construction foreman husband, Nick, argues with his crew over bringing them to his house, saying he is ashamed of his 'crazy' wife. He succumbs to their cajoling and brings them over without being able to call Mabel beforehand. She makes everyone spaghetti, which Nick seems strangely critical of. The meal is superficially pleasant, then sours once Nick snaps at Mabel for flirting and dancing with the men.
Mabel's strange mannerisms and increasingly odd behavior continue to be a source of concern for Nick. She hosts a birthday party, but one of the child's parents becomes disturbed by her behavior and is reluctant to leave his children alone with her, asking if she's been drinking. When Nick comes home, he gets into a fistfight with the child's father, who then leaves with his children. Nick also angrily slaps Mabel in front of the children. He brings a doctor to evaluate her mental health. Mabel grows increasingly angry and suspicious and Nick fights off the doctor when he attempts to sedate her. Convinced she has become a threat to herself and others, the doctor institutionalizes her.
Nick returns to work and is annoyed by the workers' interest in Mabel's situation. He gets into an altercation with a worker named Eddie, who falls down a hill and is severely injured. He picks up the children from school in the middle of the day to go to the beach and allows them to sip his beer, proving himself to be an equally unsuitable parental figure.
Six months later, Nick plans a large surprise welcome home party for Mabel's return from the institution. However, his mother points out that this may be overwhelming for her. Nick overreacts by sending off all of the non-family guests with screams and shouts. When Mabel arrives, she is apprehensive and quiet, in great contrast to her former outgoing and eccentric personality. Nick tries to make her feel comfortable, but to no avail. The evening degenerates in yet another emotional and psychologically taxing event for Mabel. She reveals she underwent electroshock therapy in the mental hospital and becomes increasingly distraught.
After the guests leave, Mabel has a breakdown and cuts herself. When she stands on a sofa and refuses to come down, Nick slaps her and causes her to fall. She appears to recover somewhat and puts the kids to bed while they express their love for her. Nick and Mabel prepare their bed together as the credits roll.
