Title: The Goonies
Rank: 763
Year: 1985
Rating: 7.7
Plot: Facing foreclosure of their homes in the "Goon Docks" area of Astoria, Oregon, to an expanding country club, a group of children who call themselves "the Goonies" (Mikey, Data, Mouth, and Chunk) gather for a final weekend together.
Rummaging through the Walshes' attic, they come across a 1632 doubloon and an old treasure map purporting to lead to the treasure of legendary pirate "One-Eyed Willy", believed to be located somewhere nearby. Mikey considers One-Eyed Willy to be the original Goonie. Seeing the treasure as their last chance to save their homes, the kids overpower and bind Mikey's older brother Brand and make their way to an abandoned restaurant on the coast that coincides with the map. Brand soon follows alongside Andy, a cheerleader with a crush on him; and Stef, Andy's friend.
The group eventually discovers that the derelict restaurant is a hideout of the Fratelli crime family: Francis, Jake, and their mother. The Goonies find a tunnel in the basement and follow it, but Chunk leaves to alert the police. When Chunk flags down a motorist to go to the sheriff's station, he gets abducted by the Fratellis and imprisoned with their hulking, deformed, younger brother Sloth. The Fratellis interrogate Chunk until he reveals where the Goonies have gone, and begin pursuit. Chunk is left behind with Sloth, and befriends him. After Sloth frees both of them, Chunk calls the sheriff, who thinks it is another one of Chunk's tall tales. Chunk and Sloth follow the trail of the Fratellis.
The Goonies evade several deadly booby traps along the tunnels, while barely staying ahead of the Fratellis. They finally reach the grotto where Willy's pirate ship, The Inferno, is anchored. The group discovers that the ship is filled with treasure, and they start filling their pockets, but Mikey warns them not to take any on a set of scales in front of Willy's skeleton, considering that to be their tribute to him.
As the Goonies are planning their escape, the Fratellis appear and strip them of their loot. The Fratellis start to bind the Goonies' hands and make them walk the plank, until Chunk and Sloth arrive and distract the Fratellis long enough for the Goonies to jump overboard and swim to safety. Brand saves Andy from drowning and they kiss. The Fratellis proceed to grab all the treasure they can, including those on Willy's scales; this triggers another booby trap, which causes the grotto to cave in. With Sloth's help, the Goonies and Fratellis barely escape.
The two groups emerge on Astoria's beach, where the Goonies reunite with their families and the police. The Fratellis are arrested, but Chunk prevents Sloth from also being taken; he invites Sloth to live with him, which Sloth accepts. Just as Mikey’s father is about to sign the foreclosure papers, the Walshes' housekeeper Rosalita discovers that Mikey's marble bag is filled with gems he took from the ship that had not been seized by the Fratellis. Mikey's father triumphantly rips up the papers, declaring that they have enough money to negate the foreclosure.
As the Goonies are recounting the tale of their adventure to the disbelieving press and police, everyone's attention is drawn to the Inferno, having broken free of the grotto, sailing off majestically on its own in the distance.
