Title: Le Samouraï
Rank: 431
Year: 1967
Rating: 8
Plot: Impassive hitman Jef Costello lives in a spartan single-room Paris apartment and keeps a small bird in a cage as a pet. His methodical modus operandi involves creating airtight alibis, including ones provided by his lover, Jane. After carrying out a contract killing on Martey, the owner of a nightclub, Jef is very clearly seen leaving the scene by the club's piano player, Valérie, and glimpsed by several other witnesses. The police bring in numerous suspects, including Jef, for a lineup, but the witnesses do not agree on an identification.
Jef is released, but the commissaire has a hunch he is the culprit and has him followed. He loses the tail and goes to collect his fee for the hit, but, instead of paying him, the man he meets tries to kill him, shooting him in the arm, and Jef realizes his unknown employers now see him as a liability because he is a suspect in Martey's murder. After treating his wound, Jef returns to the nightclub. While he is gone, two police officers bug his room, agitating the bird in its cage.
After the nightclub closes, Jef has Valérie take him to her home, reasoning that she told the police he was not the killer because his employer had told her to do so. He asks her to tell him who hired him, and she tells him to call her in two hours. Meanwhile, the police search Jane's apartment, saying they will leave her alone if she withdraws her alibi for Jef, but she flatly rejects the offer.
Back at his apartment, Jef notices some loose feathers scattered around his bird's cage as though it had gotten worked up while he was gone. Suspecting an intrusion, he finds the bug and deactivates it, and then goes to a public phone to call Valérie, but she does not answer. When he gets home, he is ambushed by the man who shot him. At gunpoint, the man offers a fresh start and pays Jef for the hit on Martey, as well as for an upcoming one. Jef overpowers the man and forces him to disclose the identity of his boss, Olivier Rey, before asking about the new contract.
Dozens of undercover police officers attempt to tail Jef in the Paris Métro, but he is able to lose them. He visits Jane and assures her everything will work out, and then drives to Rey's house, which is where Valérie lives, though she is not home at the moment. Jef kills Rey and returns to the nightclub, this time making no attempt to conceal his presence. He checks his hat, but leaves his hat-check ticket on the counter, and puts on white gloves, which he wears when carrying out his hits, in full view of everyone, before approaching the stage, where Valérie is performing. She quietly advises him to leave, but he pulls out a gun and points it at her. Strangely unafraid, she asks him why he is doing this, and he responds he was paid to do so. Suddenly, Jef is shot four times by policemen who had been waiting for him. When the Commissaire inspects Jef's gun, he discovers it does not contain any bullets.
