Title: Inglourious Basterds
Rank: 92
Year: 2009
Rating: 8.3
Plot: In 1941, SS-Standartenführer Hans Landa interrogates French farmer Perrier LaPadite, suspecting that the LaPadites are hiding a Jewish family, the Dreyfuses, under their floorboards. LaPadite tearfully confirms this to spare his own family, and Landa has the hidden family shot, but allows Shosanna Dreyfus to escape.Three years later, U.S. Army Lieutenant Aldo Raine recruits Jewish-American soldiers to the "Basterds", a black ops commando unit instilling fear among Nazis in occupied France by killing and scalping them. The group includes Sergeant Donny "The Bear Jew" Donowitz, rogue German Sergeant Hugo Stiglitz, and Austrian-born translator Corporal Wilhelm Wicki. In Germany, Adolf Hitler interviews a German soldier, who reveals that Raine carved a swastika into his forehead after massacring his squad.
In Paris, Shosanna operates a cinema under the name Emmanuelle Mimieux, and meets Fredrick Zoller, a famed German sniper set to star in the Nazi propaganda film Stolz der Nation (Nation's Pride). Infatuated with Shosanna, Zoller convinces Joseph Goebbels to hold the film's premiere at her cinema. Landa, the premiere's head of security, interrogates Shosanna, who plots with her Afro-French lover and projectionist, Marcel, to kill the Nazi leaders in attendance.
British Commando Lieutenant Archie Hicox is recruited to lead an attack on the premiere with the Basterds. Disguised as German officers, Hicox, Stiglitz, and Wicki meet with German film star Bridget von Hammersmark, an undercover Allied agent, at a tavern in Nazi-occupied northern France. Hicox inadvertently draws the attention of Wehrmacht Sergeant Wilhelm and Major Dieter Hellström, first with his unusually accented German and then by using a British hand gesture. Their cover is blown, and a gunfight ensues, killing everyone except Wilhelm and a wounded von Hammersmark. Raine arrives and negotiates for von Hammersmark's release, but she shoots Wilhelm. Raine tortures von Hammersmark, believing she set his men up, but she convinces him she is loyal and reveals Hitler will be attending the premiere. Raine decides to carry out their plan with himself, Donowitz, and Omar Ulmer. Investigating the tavern, Landa finds von Hammersmark's shoe and a napkin with her signature.
Raine, Donowitz, and Ulmer infiltrate the premiere with timed explosives, while Landa confronts von Hammersmark with her missing shoe before strangling her to death. Raine and another Basterd, Smithson Utivich, are discovered and taken prisoner, but Landa has Raine contact his superior to cut a deal: Landa will allow the mission to proceed in exchange for safe passage through the Allied lines, a full pardon, and other privileges.
During the screening, Zoller slips away to the projection booth and attempts to rape Shosanna, leading them to shoot each other dead. As the film reaches its climax, Shosanna's spliced-in footage tells the audience that they are about to be killed by a Jew. Having locked the auditorium, Marcel ignites a pile of flammable film behind the screen, setting the theater ablaze. Ulmer and Donowitz break into the opera box, gunning down Hitler and Goebbels and firing into the crowd until their explosives kill everyone inside the cinema.
Landa and his radio operator drive Raine and Utivich into Allied territory, where they surrender themselves. However, Raine shoots the radio operator before ordering Utivich to scalp him, and carves a swastika into Landa's forehead, professing it to be his "masterpiece".
