Title: The Raid 2
Rank: 536
Year: 2014
Rating: 7.9
Plot: Immediately after helping his brother, Rama take down his boss in the previous film, Jakarta gang boss Andi is captured and executed by another criminal named Bejo. Meanwhile, Rama brings his injured squadmate Bowo and corrupt superior Lt. Wahyu to meet Lt. Bunawar, head of an internal investigation unit. Bunawar sends Bowo away to be treated and has Wahyu killed under the pretense of keeping Rama safe from other crooked cops and asks Rama to help him expose police chief Reza's crooked dealings with the Bangun and Goto crime syndicates. Rama initially refuses, but agrees after learning of Andi's death.
Bunawar tasks Rama to infiltrate Bangun's organization undercover and also suggests Rama to gain the trust of Bangun's son Uco, who is currently in prison. Using the pseudonym Yuda, Rama deliberately lets himself get arrested and put in the same prison as Uco. In prison, Rama successfully gains Uco's trust by saving his life during a violent riot intended to cover up an assassination. Two years later, Rama is released from prison and Uco picks him up to meet Bangun, who hires Rama out of gratitude. After doing some work for Bangun, Uco meets up with Rama, telling him that he is frustrated with his limited role in his father's organization and thinks that he deserves to be involved in Bangun's bigger operations. Rama uses the opportunity to secretly plant a bug in Uco's wallet.
Uco meets Bejo, who shares rumors of a plot to turn Reza and others against his father. Bejo allows Uco to kill the gang members responsible for the prison riot, and they hatch a plot to start a gang war between Bangun and Goto so Uco can prove his worth to his father and Bejo can take Goto's territory. Uco then sets Prakoso, Bangun's most loyal hitman, up to be killed by the Assassin, Bejo's top enforcer. Uco tries to convince Bangun that Prakoso's death is caused by Goto's men, but Bangun refuses to retaliate. Frustrated, Uco tells Bejo to have his two hitmen; siblings Hammer Girl and Baseball Bat Man kill several of Goto's men. When Bangun and Goto meet to discuss the situation, Uco lashes out in anger, embarrassing Bangun into conceding territory. After returning to their office, Bangun angrily beats Uco, berating him for meaninglessly disrupting the peace between the two organizations. 
Meanwhile, Rama is suddenly attacked by Reza's corrupt cops, but manages to defeat them. While recovering from the attack, Rama is urgently called to Bangun's office by Bangun's advisor Eka. Before Rama makes his way to Bangun's office, Bejo arrives with the Assassin and a mob of henchmen. Uco finally reveals his betrayal by killing his father and wounds Eka. Before Bejo can finish Eka off, Rama arrives, giving Eka the chance to escape, but is subdued by the Assassin and driven away to be executed. Eka rescues Rama in a violent car chase, but is critically injured in the process. Before Rama leaves, Eka reveals to Rama that he knows Rama is working undercover and that he is also an undercover officer. Goto's henchman Ryuichi informs Goto of Uco's betrayal and that Reza is meeting Bejo and Uco. 
Lt. Bunawar informs Rama that the gang war has escalated after the police commissioner has been killed. He also informs Rama of the meeting between Reza, Bejo, and Uco. Still shaken after killing his father, Uco discovers Rama's bug in his wallet. He notices Bejo has the same tattoo as the gang member who tried to kill him during the riot. Uco finally realizes that he has been used only as a pawn by Bejo. Rama attacks Bejo's restaurant and makes his way through the warehouse, mercilessly taking down Bejo's henchmen including Hammer Girl and Baseball Bat Man. He then meets the Assassin, whom he finally defeats after an incredibly intense, brutal and bloody battle. 
Rama finally makes his way to Bejo and disrupts the meeting. Bejo attempts to shoot Rama but is killed by Uco, who also shoots and kills Reza. Uco then turns to shoot Rama. However, before he can do so Rama throws the Assassin's karambit at Uco, striking him in the face. Uco is momentarily stunned. Rama seizes the opportunity, leaps from his hiding place and fatally stabs Uco. Weakened and exhausted after the fight, Rama limps away from the premises and encounters Goto's men led by Goto's son Keichi who were sent to attack the meeting. While Lt. Bunawar drives to the site, Keichi smirks as he silently offers a deal to Rama, who responds with "No... I'm Done."
