Title: Dawn of the Planet of the Apes
Rank: 970
Year: 2014
Rating: 7.6
Plot: Ten years after the deadly Simian Flu pandemic, the worldwide human population is drastically reduced, with only about 1 in 500 genetically immune. This causes societal collapse among humans. The apes, all bestowed with genetically enhanced intelligence by the virus, establish a colony in the Muir Woods near San Francisco.
A group of humans, led by Malcolm, unknowingly enter the apes' territory in search of a hydroelectric dam that would restore power to their community in San Francisco. Carver, a member of Malcolm's group, injures a chimpanzee named Ash in an unexpected confrontation. Malcolm manages to prevent further escalation, and Caesar, the apes' leader, orders the humans to leave. Prompted by Koba, Caesar brings his army to the human community as a display of strength. Caesar announces that, despite the apes not wanting war, they will fight the humans if forced; he demands the humans stay in their territory. Malcolm convinces community leader Dreyfus to give him time to take a small team to the forest with the mission to reconcile with the apes and access the dam. Eventually, Caesar allows them to work on the generator on the condition that they surrender their guns. While working together, Malcolm, his wife Ellie, and his son Alexander bond with the apes. The fragile relationship briefly falls apart when Carver is discovered to have kept a hidden gun and is thus forcibly sent away, but trust is restored when Ellie, a nurse, effectively treats Caesar's wife Cornelia's illness.
Dreyfus arms his community with the munitions at the Fort Point armory. Koba, who has a vendetta against humans for his mistreatment as a laboratory test subject, discovers the armory and confronts Caesar, accusing him of loving humans more than apes. Caesar beats Koba in response but refrains from killing him. Koba later returns to the armory, kills two guards, and secretly kills Carver after the humans succeed in repairing the generator. Koba takes advantage of their celebration to covertly set fire to the ape colony. He then shoots and seemingly kills Caesar, who falls into the underbrush. Koba frames the humans for Caesar's death and the fire to justify war. Taking command, he leads the ape army to San Francisco, where they plunder the armory and mount a full-scale assault on the humans. Despite taking heavy casualties, the apes breach the building and imprison the humans as Dreyfus flees underground. While refusing orders to kill unarmed humans, Ash cites Caesar's teachings, and Koba kills him. Koba has all apes loyal to Caesar imprisoned, including Caesar's lieutenants Maurice, Luca, and Rocket.
Malcolm's family find a severely wounded Caesar and transport him to his former home in San Francisco. After sneaking back into the settlement to find medical supplies, Malcolm encounters Blue Eyes, Caesar's son. Blue Eyes spares him before learning that his father is still alive and accompanies Malcolm to Caesar. After learning that Koba shot Caesar, Blue Eyes reconciles with his father; the trio return to the community and free every imprisoned human and ape. After escorting the apes into the tower, Malcolm finds Dreyfus, who reveals that his men made radio contact with a military base. Malcolm holds Dreyfus and his men at gunpoint in an effort to give Caesar time to retake command. Caesar confronts Koba at the top of the tower; as they fight, Dreyfus kills himself when he detonates C-4 in order to destabilize the building in a failed attempt to kill the apes. Caesar defeats and kills Koba, sending him plummeting to his death.
Malcolm warns Caesar of the approaching human military. with Caesar stating; "War has already begun" because of Koba's violent reign. Believing that the humans will never forgive the apes for their attack, Caesar convinces Malcolm to leave with his family for safety before the fighting begins. He then addresses the apes, preparing for the upcoming war.
