Title: Jab We Met
Rank: 586
Year: 2007
Rating: 7.9
Plot: Aditya Kashyap, heir to a wealthy but broken family, is depressed and suicidal as he walks out of an important company meeting. He wanders aimlessly and boards a random train where he meets another passenger, Geet Dhillon, a jovial and talkative young girl. At one point, Aditya is shown to be so deep in this thoughts that he seems to be contemplating suicide, but Geet shakes him out of it. He gets off the train in the middle of the night at a random station. Geet tries to get him back aboard as the train is about to leave but ends up getting left behind herself. She gets Aditya to drive her to the next station, but ends up missing it again.
Geet blames Aditya for the mess and insists he accompany her to her home in Bhatinda. The next morning, they set out for Bhatinda and bond along the way. He opens up to her about how his girlfriend ditched him to marry someone else. Geet wins him over with her theory of self-love and he lets go of his reserved nature. She tells him of her plan to elope with her boyfriend Anshuman because her family won't accept their marriage due to religious differences.
Geet’s relatives are immensely grateful to him for bringing her back and ask him to stay with them for a week. Her family decides to fix her wedding but an uninterested Geet pretends to be in love with Aditya to drive away the groom. She runs away from her house the very night and plans to see Anshuman. Aditya tries to dissuade and take the potential consequences seriously. She however convinces him to help her elope. The two of them arrive in Manali, Himachal Pradesh, where Anshuman stays. She tries to take Aditya along to introduce him to Anshuman but he bids farewell, heartbroken because he has fallen in love with her.
Embracing Geet’s jovial approach and enjoying a renewed optimism to life, Aditya successfully revives his company's financial status. He also reconciles with his mother who had become estranged after her extra-marital affair. Nine months later Geet's family sees him in a brand launch event on TV. They confront him at his office, citing that Geet hasn’t returned home since they eloped. Although unaware of her whereabouts, Aditya promises to bring her back in the next ten days. He returns to Manali where he learns that Anshuman had turned down her proposal because he had no plans of getting married.
Aditya traces her to Shimla where he is disappointed to find her leading a quiet life as a reclusive schoolteacher in her former school. Aditya convinces her to leave from there and tries to help her regain her positive outlook towards life. Meanwhile, Anshuman attempts to start afresh. Uncertain about him, the three of them leave for Bhatinda together. Her family is still under the impression that she had eloped with Aditya and she repeatedly fails to tell them the truth despite having the opportunity, leaving her confused. Aditya advises her to talk to Anshuman the next morning.
The next day, Aditya sets out on his way back home as Geet meets up with Anshuman. As a train passes by, Geet realizes that she loves Aditya and not Anshuman. She runs to Aditya, confesses her love and the two of them share a passionate kiss. Anshuman leaves the scene confused and hurt. Their wedding takes place with their families' blessings.
In a mid-credits song sequence, Geet’s grandfather Suryendra tells his two great-granddaughters about how 'mischievous' their parents were and how he knew they were in love all along. Geet and Aditya nod in agreement as they share a smile.
