Title: Wreck-It Ralph
Rank: 832
Year: 2012
Rating: 7.7
Plot: Whenever Litwak's Arcade closes, the various video game characters leave their in-game roles and socialize via a power strip called Game Central Station. One evening, Wreck-It Ralph, the villain of platformer game Fix-it Felix, Jr., visits a villain support group called Bad-Anon, expressing frustration with his assigned role. When Ralph is excluded and ostracized from his game's 30th-anniversary party, he decides to win a medal and earn respect. Upon overhearing that one can earn medals in a first-person shooter called Hero's Duty, Ralph sneaks in and steals one while the characters fight insectoid monsters known as Cy-Bugs. Ralph accidentally launches himself in an escape shuttle with a Cy-Bug inside and crash-lands in the confectionery-themed kart racing game Sugar Rush. With Ralph gone, his game is labeled "out of order" and put in danger of being unplugged. Fix-It Felix, Jr, the hero, leaves the game to find Ralph, allying with Sergeant Calhoun, the heroine of Hero's Duty. Calhoun is tracking the Cy-Bug, as Cy-Bugs behave as a virus once outside their game. Felix worries Ralph will meet the same fate as Turbo, the protagonist of the racing game TurboTime, who became jealous of a newly-installed RoadBlasters cabinet's success and tried to take it over, resulting in both games being unplugged.
In Sugar Rush, a girl named Vanellope von Schweetz steals Ralph's medal and uses it to buy her way into the nightly race that determines which characters will be playable the next day. King Candy, the ruler of Sugar Rush's world, forbids her to race, as she is a glitch that teleports erratically. Vanellope promises to get the medal back if Ralph helps her win; he helps her build a new kart and teaches her to drive inside Diet Cola Mountain. Meanwhile, Calhoun and Felix arrive in Sugar Rush, where they fall into "Nesquik-sand", work together to escape, and begin to fall in love. 
King Candy hacks into Sugar Rush's source code and retrieves the medal, giving it back to Ralph. He claims that if Vanellope becomes a playable character, her glitching may lead to Sugar Rush being labeled out of order and unplugged. Ralph decides he cannot allow Vanellope to race, and he destroys her kart. Calhoun abandons Felix when he inadvertently reminds her of her late fiancé, who was killed by a Cy-Bug during their wedding; Felix is imprisoned by King Candy's assistant, Sour Bill, while Calhoun discovers that the Cy-Bug has multiplied exponentially.
A despondent Ralph returns to Fix-it Felix, Jr., but the game has been evacuated. Ralph notices that the Sugar Rush cabinet displays Vanellope as an actual playable character. Realizing King Candy's deception, Ralph returns to Sugar Rush  and interrogates Sour Bill, learning that King Candy damaged Vanellope's code. King Candy's edits to the code also have ensured no one but himself knows Vanellope's true role. However, if Vanellope completes a race, all of King Candy's changes will be deleted, as the game will reset itself. Ralph reconciles with and frees Vanellope and Felix from prison. Felix fixes the kart, and Vanellope belatedly enters the race, just before the Cy-Bugs emerge and start destroying the game. Calhoun, Felix, and Ralph help evacuate the characters.
Unaware of this development, King Candy attempts to ram Vanellope off the track, causing them both to glitch. Their glitching inadvertently reveals King Candy to be Turbo, who secretly took over Sugar Rush after surviving the unplugging of TurboTime. Vanellope flees as Turbo is devoured by a Cy-Bug, which fuses with him into an insectoid monster. Everyone but Vanellope evacuates, as glitches cannot leave their games. Remembering from Hero's Duty that a beacon will draw and destroy the Cy-Bugs, Ralph battles Turbo and collapses the Mentos roof of Diet Cola Mountain, creating a glowing eruption that lures and destroys Turbo and the Cy-Bugs. Vanellope rescues Ralph and crosses the finish line. The game resets, revealing her as the true ruler of Sugar Rush, though she keeps her glitching ability, considering it an advantage.
Ralph returns to his game, content with his role as a villain and finally respected by his fellow characters. Felix and Calhoun marry, and Ralph watches Vanellope become Sugar Rush's favorite character.
