Title: Puss in Boots: The Last Wish
Rank: 608
Year: 2022
Rating: 7.8
Plot: While hosting a party in the Spanish town of Del Mar, legendary hero and outlaw Puss in Boots rouses a giant, subdues it, but is crushed by a bell. Waking up in a hospital, Puss is informed by the town doctor that he has lost eight of his nine lives. The doctor suggests to Puss that he should retire, but he refuses. That night in a bar, Puss meets a black-hooded wolf, who disarms and wounds him in a sword fight. Traumatized by the event, Puss flees to the house of cat lady Mama Luna, burying his clothes in her yard. Many months later, Puss meets an optimistic Chihuahua disguised as a cat, whom he calls Perrito. Goldilocks and her Three Bears Crime Family soon arrive at Luna's home, looking to hire Puss to help them steal a map bearing the Wishing Star's location. However, they fail to recognize him, and leave after finding his "grave". Puss decides to use the Star to restore his lost lives.
Accompanied by Perrito, Puss travels to the factory lair of corrupt pastry salesman and magical artifact collector "Big" Jack Horner, who intends to use the Star to control all the magic in the world. Puss finds the map, but is interrupted by his resentful ex-fiancée Kitty Softpaws. Goldi, the Bears, and Horner arrive on the scene; Puss and Kitty escape with the map and Perrito, but Puss sees the Wolf behind them in the distance.
The map leads the trio to the Dark Forest, a pocket dimension that changes its appearance depending on the map's holder. During another clash with Horner, his henchmen, Goldi, and the Bears, Puss sees the Wolf in the distance again and flees in his panic, allowing Goldi to obtain the map from Kitty. After Perrito follows him and calms Puss down, Puss confesses his fears, and his remorse for abandoning Kitty just before their wedding. Kitty overhears them, and reveals that she never attended the wedding either, believing Puss loved himself too much to love her.
Puss and Kitty steal back the map while Goldi and the Bears are distracted by a manifestation of their woodland cottage. As the dimension shifts, Puss accidentally traps himself in a crystalline cave, where he encounters his arrogant past lives, and the Wolf, who reveals himself as Death. Offended by Puss' failure to value his extra lives, Death intends to take Puss' final life prematurely as punishment. Horrified, Puss runs out of the cave towards the Star alone, leaving Kitty and Perrito behind. Meanwhile, Goldi reveals to the Bears that her wish is to be reunited with her biological family; although they are devastated, the Bears agree to help her.
Puss climbs onto the Star and begins to make his wish, but is confronted by Kitty, who scolds him for his selfishness and confesses that her wish was to find someone she could trust. Goldi, the Bears, and Horner arrive, and a fight ensues for the map; Goldi briefly obtains the map, but abandons it to save Baby Bear, while Kitty traps Horner inside his magical bottomless bag.
Death arrives at the Star and challenges Puss to a duel. Having learned the value of life from his time with his companions, Puss forgoes wishing for more lives and accepts, temporarily disarming the Wolf. Puss declares that he knows he can never defeat Death, but he will never stop fighting for his last life. Seeing that Puss has lost his arrogance, Death begrudgingly spares him; before Death leaves, he and Puss acknowledge that they will eventually meet again.
Horner eats a magic snack, becoming a giant and escaping the bag. Perrito distracts him long enough for Puss, Kitty, and Goldi to destroy the map, causing the Star to collapse and consume Horner before rocketing towards the sky and exploding. In the aftermath, Goldi affirms to the Bears that they are her true family, and they leave to take over Horner's bakery. Puss rekindles his romance with Kitty; later, the two cats and Perrito steal a ship, setting sail for the Kingdom of Far Far Away.
