Title: Scent of a Woman
Rank: 375
Year: 1992
Rating: 8
Plot: Charlie Simms is a scholarship student at Baird, an exclusive New England preparatory school. A woman hires him to watch over her uncle, retired Army Lieutenant Colonel Frank Slade, over Thanksgiving weekend. Charlie accepts so he can buy a plane ticket home to Gresham, Oregon for Christmas. He discovers Frank to be a blind, highly decorated Vietnam War veteran who has become a cantankerous alcoholic.
Charlie and another student, George Willis, Jr., witness three classmates set up a prank to humiliate the headmaster, Mr. Trask. After falling victim, Trask learns of the two witnesses and unsuccessfully presses them to name the perpetrators. He privately offers Charlie a bribe: a letter of recommendation to attend Harvard University. Trask sets a meeting of the school disciplinary committee to take place the Monday after the Thanksgiving weekend.
Frank unexpectedly takes Charlie on a trip to New York City, where they stay at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel. During dinner at the Oak Room, Frank reveals that the goals of his trip are to stay at a four-star hotel, to enjoy good food and wine, to visit his older brother, and to make love to a "terrific" woman, then declares his intention to commit suicide. 
On Thanksgiving they pay an uninvited visit to the home of Frank's brother in White Plains, where the cause of Frank's blindness is revealed: while drunk, he juggled live grenades to show off for a group of younger officers, and one exploded. Frank deliberately provokes everyone at dinner, which ends after a heated confrontation with his nephew Randy.
As they return to New York City, Charlie tells Frank about his problem at school. Frank advises Charlie to turn informant and go to Harvard, warning him that George will probably submit to Trask's pressure, so he should act and obtain a benefit before George does. While at a restaurant, Frank notices Donna, a young woman waiting for her date. He invites her to the dance floor, where they perform a spectacular tango ("Por una Cabeza").  The evening ends after Frank visits with a high-class escort, completing the stated objectives of his trip.
Deeply despondent the next morning, Frank is uninterested in Charlie's suggestions for that day's activities until Charlie suggests test driving a new Ferrari. Frank talks the reluctant salesman into letting them take the car. Once on the road, Frank becomes depressed again, until Charlie allows him to drive. Frank is elated until he is pulled over by a police officer. Frank talks the officer into letting them go without revealing that he is blind.
After returning the car, Frank again becomes despondent and walks into traffic on Park Avenue, where he narrowly avoids being struck by multiple cars. When they return to the hotel, Frank sends Charlie to buy cigars. Charlie leaves but quickly becomes suspicious and returns to find Frank in his dress uniform, preparing to commit suicide with his service pistol. Frank backs down after Charlie convinces him that he has much to live for and should face his circumstances courageously.
On Monday morning, Charlie and George are subjected to formal inquiry by the disciplinary committee, with the rest of the student body present as an audience. Frank unexpectedly arrives and sits with Charlie. George's father pressures George to identify the three perpetrators, and he provides tentative identifications. When pressed to definitely name them, George, Jr., claims he was not wearing his contact lenses, so poor eyesight prevents him from being certain, and he defers to Charlie.
Charlie refuses to inform, so Trask recommends his expulsion. Frank changes his previous position and gives a passionate speech defending Charlie: he reveals the bribe attempt and urges the committee to value Charlie's integrity. The disciplinary committee denies George recognition for naming the perpetrators, places them on probation, and excuses Charlie from the proceedings.
As Charlie escorts Frank to his limousine, political science professor Christine Downes, a member of the disciplinary committee, commends Frank for his speech. Frank flirts with her, and impresses her by telling her the name of her perfume ("Fleurs de Rocaille"). Afterwards he accurately describes her to Charlie, including her height and hair color. Charlie accompanies Frank home, where Frank happily greets his niece's children.
