Title: The Conversation
Rank: 687
Year: 1974
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Surveillance expert Harry Caul runs a private company in San Francisco offering wiretapping services. Caul, his colleague Stan, and some freelance associates are bugging the conversation of a couple as they walk through crowded Union Square. 
Against a cacophony of background noise, the couple discusses their fear that they are being watched and mention a discreet meeting at a hotel in a few days. Later, Caul filters and merges the three tapes recorded from different points by his operatives; the result is a clear recording whose meaning is ambiguous.
Caul is obsessed with his own privacy: his apartment is almost bare behind its triple-locked door and burglar alarm, he uses pay phones to make calls, and his office is enclosed in a chain-link cage in a corner of a much larger warehouse. He has no friends, his girlfriend Amy knows nothing about him, and his sole hobby is playing along to jazz records on a tenor saxophone alone in his apartment. 
He insists that he is not responsible for the content of the conversations he records or the use to which his clients put his surveillance, but he is wracked with guilt about a past job that was followed by the murders of three people. His sense of guilt is amplified by his devout Catholicism.
Caul attempts to deliver the recording but his client, referred to only as "the Director", is not in his office. Caul refuses to leave the tape with his client's assistant, Martin Stett, who warns him against getting involved and tells Caul that the tapes are "dangerous.” After refusing to turn over the tapes, Caul sees both the man and the woman in the building. 
Increasingly uneasy about what may happen to the couple, Caul repeatedly replays and refines the recording. Using a filter, he uncovers a key phrase hidden under the sound of street musicians: "He'd kill us if he got the chance."
Caul avoids turning the tape over to Stett, and soon comes to believe that he is being followed, tricked, and bugged. Soon, after a party in his office with other surveillance professionals, the tape is stolen by a prostitute Caul engages, Meredith. 
Caul receives a call from Stett, who tells him the Director couldn't wait any longer. He visits the Director, and learns that the woman in the recording is the Director's wife and is apparently having an affair with the man.
Caul books a hotel room next to one mentioned in the recording, and uses equipment to overhear the Director in a heated argument with his wife. When he goes to the balcony, he sees a bloody hand slam against the glass partition; believing he was witnessing the wife being murdered, he retreats in shock. He later breaks into the hotel room to find no sign of the murder, except for the toilet, which overflows with bloody water when he flushes it (which may or may not be his imagination).
Caul attempts to confront the Director at his office but is told he is absent. While leaving, Caul notices the wife, alive and unharmed, in a limousine. He later sees a newspaper headline about an executive killed in a car accident, and realizes the truth: the couple he heard was plotting the murder of the woman's husband, and Caul witnessed the murder of the Director himself. This helps Caul realize that through all of his previous listens of the recordings, he missed the emphasis on the word "us" in the statement "He'd kill us if he got the chance", which was the man telling the wife that they would be killed by The Director if he learned about the affair.
Caul gets a phone call from Stett, who tells him not to look into the matter, adding "We'll be listening to you" before playing a recording of Caul's saxophone from seconds earlier. Caul frantically searches for a listening device, disassembling and destroying everything in his apartment from light fixtures, air vents, thermostats, smoke directors to the floors and the walls, to no avail. He sits amid the wreckage playing his saxophone, the only thing in his apartment left intact.
