Title: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly
Rank: 13
Year: 1966
Rating: 8.8
Plot: In 1862, in the American Southwest during the Civil War, three bounty hunters ambush Mexican bandit Tuco Ramirez, who shoots them all and escapes. Elsewhere, mercenary "Angel Eyes" interrogates former Confederate soldier Stevens for the alias of Jackson, a soldier who stole a cache of Confederate gold. Stevens gives the name "Bill Carson," offers Angel Eyes a bribe and then draws his pistol. Angel Eyes kills him and, intrigued about the gold, also kills his own employer. Tuco is rescued from more bounty hunters by a drifter, whom he calls "Blondie". Blondie delivers Tuco to a sheriff and collects his $2,000 bounty. As Tuco is about to be hanged, Blondie severs his noose by shooting it and setting him free. The two escape and split the bounty. They repeat the process in other towns until Blondie grows weary of Tuco's complaints and strands him in the desert.
Bent on revenge, and after one failed attempt with his gang, Tuco catches up with Blondie and force-marches him across the desert until Blondie collapses from dehydration. A runaway ambulance arrives with several dead Confederate soldiers and a near-death Bill Carson, who promises Tuco $200,000 in gold, buried in a grave in Sad Hill Cemetery, in exchange for help. When Tuco returns with water, Carson has died. However, before dying, he revealed the name on the grave to Blondie. Despite being mortal enemies, Blondie and Tuco realize they need one another alive to find the gold since only Tuco knows the name of the cemetery and only Blondie knows which grave to dig.
Posing as a Confederate soldier, Tuco takes Blondie to a nearby mission to recover. There, Tuco reunites with his brother, Pablo, who left his family to become a priest when Tuco was a child. Their meeting does not go well and they quickly become hostile.
Tuco and Blondie continue their search for the gold. Tuco yells pro-Confederate statements to an approaching group of soldiers who turn out to be a Union patrol. The two are taken to a prison camp that Angel Eyes has infiltrated as a Union sergeant in his search for Bill Carson. Tuco poses as Carson and is taken away for questioning. He reveals the name of the cemetery under torture and is sent away to be hanged. Knowing Blondie would not reveal the name on the grave, Angel Eyes recruits him into his search. Tuco escapes hanging by killing a henchman working for Angel Eyes, then goes to an evacuated town where Blondie, Angel Eyes and his gang have arrived.
Blondie finds Tuco and together they kill the gang, but Angel Eyes manages to escape. En route to Sad Hill, the duo find themselves in a skirmish between the Union and the Confederacy over a strategic bridge. Blondie decides to destroy the bridge to disperse the two armies and clear their path. As they wire the bridge with explosives, Tuco suggests they share the location of the grave with each other in case either is killed. Tuco reveals the name of the cemetery while Blondie says "Arch Stanton" is the name on the grave. After the bridge is demolished, Tuco steals a horse and rides to Sad Hill to claim the gold for himself. Blondie and Angel Eyes catch up to him as he digs up the grave, which contains no gold. Blondie admits lying about the name, then places a rock in the middle of the cemetery's pavement on which he says the true name is written.

The men stand around the pavement in a Mexican standoff. Blondie kills Angel Eyes while Tuco discovers that Blondie unloaded his gun the night before. Blondie reveals that the gold is in the grave beside Arch Stanton's, marked "Unknown". Tuco is initially elated to find bags of gold, but Blondie holds him at gunpoint and orders him into a hangman's noose beneath a tree. With his hands bound, Tuco is forced to stand atop an unsteady grave marker while Blondie takes his half of the gold and rides away. As Tuco screams for mercy, Blondie severs the rope with a rifle shot, dropping Tuco face-first onto the gold. Tuco furiously curses Blondie as he disappears over the horizon.
