Title: Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara
Rank: 200
Year: 2011
Rating: 8.2
Plot: Kabir Dewan is planning a three-week road-trip bachelor party in Spain with his friends from school – Imran Qureshi, an advertising copywriter; and Arjun Saluja, a financial broker based in London. Kabir says the three friends have a long-standing pact, and that during the road trip each of them will pick a surprise adventure sport in which they all have to participate together. Arjun is initially reluctant to take the trip as he does not want to miss work. Imran secretly plans to find his estranged biological father after discovering letters from his late foster father Faisal Qureshi, though his mother Rahila resists the thought.
The three men fly to Spain separately and meet in Barcelona, where Imran takes Kabir out to find an art gallery where they come across the work of Salman Habib, an artist who lives in Spain. They plan to visit Costa Brava, Seville, and Pamplona. On the way to Costa Brava, Imran and Kabir are annoyed when Arjun continues working on the journey. While Arjun is driving and answering a phone call, Imran casually throws Arjun's mobile phone out of their car, which results in a physical altercation. Arjun, in a fit of rage, accuses Imran of being unapologetic for being involved four years prior with Arjun's then-girlfriend Sonali; Kabir stops the argument and advises Arjun and Imran not to bring up Sonali as she was the main reason why the trip was cancelled four years prior. Upon reaching their destination, they meet Laila, an Anglo-Indian woman, to whom Arjun is immediately attracted; Imran flirts with her and makes Arjun jealous.
Kabir announces he has chosen underwater diving as their first sport, and they later find that Laila is their diving instructor. Arjun, who cannot swim and is aquaphobic, receives assistance from Laila to overcome his fears, and finishes the sport successfully, gaining a new perspective of life. Laila suggests they attend the La Tomatina festival with her in Buñol, interfering with Arjun's planned activity; Arjun accepts and they head to the festival. Meanwhile, Natasha Arora, Kabir's fiancée, becomes suspicious that Kabir is involved with Laila when she sees her on a video call with Kabir; he tries to explain that Laila has been invited over to the boys' villa for dinner, but Natasha does not believe him. Natasha crashes the bachelor party trip, much to Kabir's discomfort. Imran spends time with Laila's friend Nuria, and Arjun with Laila. After the men leave for Seville, both Arjun and Laila realise they have fallen in love and not to regret the partition, Laila chases them on a bike, kissing Arjun passionately before saying goodbye. Arjun now feels significantly more at peace with himself, and Natasha is relieved of her suspicions about Kabir.
On their way to Seville, Kabir drops Natasha at the airport, while Arjun and Imran discuss Kabir's change in behaviour around Natasha. The trio then visits Seville to go skydiving, Arjun's choice of sport. During the task, Imran is forced to confront his acrophobia and hesitates to take part, but does so anyway. After skydiving, the three men go to a bar and get drunk. After a prank backfires, they are arrested and held in custody until Imran reveals to his friends that Salman is his father. Imran calls Salman, who bails them out and takes them to his home. During a conversation with Imran, Salman reveals that he never wanted the responsibility of married life or children but Rahila did; as they continue talking, Imran notices that Salman still does not feel sorry for leaving Rahila. Realizing how his actions must have hurt Arjun four years ago, he apologises to him, and Arjun, appreciating the genuineness of his apology, forgives him with a hug.
The three men learn of the running of the bulls in Pamplona, which is Imran's choice, baffling Kabir and Arjun. Imran contacts Laila, who joins them. When confronted by his friends, Kabir reveals to the others that he proposed to Natasha by accident; he had bought a ring as a birthday present for his mother, and while showing it to Natasha, she had mistaken it for an engagement ring. Arjun realises why the trip was so important to Kabir; nobody apart from his two best friends would tell him to cancel his wedding. On the morning of the bull run, Imran suggests they make another pact for if they survive the event: Imran vows to publish the poetry he has written in his diary, Arjun vows to go to Morocco with Laila and live to the fullest, and Kabir promises to tell Natasha he does not want to marry her yet. The three friends complete the event successfully, gaining a renewed sense of life.
Imran, Kabir, Nuria, and Natasha later attend Arjun and Laila's wedding. Natasha and Kabir are no longer together but are still friends, and Natasha introduces him to her new partner. Imran's poems are revealed to have been published.
