Title: The Lego Movie
Rank: 804
Year: 2014
Rating: 7.7
Plot: In the Lego universe, the wizard Vitruvius is blinded when he fails to protect a superweapon called the "Kragle", a misreading of Krazy Glue, from the evil Lord Business, but prophesies that a person called "The Special" will find the Piece of Resistance capable of stopping the Kragle. Lord Business claims Vitruvius made up the prophecy and kicks Vitruvius off a cliff.
Eight and a half years later, in Bricksburg, construction worker Emmet Brickowski comes across a beautiful woman searching for something at his construction site. Emmet falls into a pit and finds the Piece of Resistance. Compelled to touch it, Emmet experiences visions, including one of a giant called "The Man Upstairs", and passes out. He awakens in the custody of Bad Cop, Business's lieutenant, with the Piece of Resistance attached to his back. Emmet learns of Business's plans to freeze the world with the Kragle; the Piece of Resistance is the glue tube's cap. The woman, nicknamed Wyldstyle, rescues Emmet, believing him to be the Special. They escape Bad Cop and travel to "The Old West" where they meet Vitruvius. He and Wyldstyle are Master Builders, capable of building anything without instruction manuals, who oppose Business's attempts to suppress their creativity. Though disappointed Emmet is not a Master Builder, they are convinced of his potential when he recalls visions of "the Man Upstairs".
Emmet, Wyldstyle, and Vitruvius evade Bad Cop's forces with the help of Wyldstyle's boyfriend, Batman, and escape to "Cloud Cuckoo Land", where all the master builders are in hiding. The Master Builders are unimpressed with Emmet's cowardice and refuse to help him fight Business. Bad Cop's forces attack and capture everyone except Emmet, Wyldstyle, Vitruvius, Batman, and fellow Master Builders MetalBeard, Unikitty, and Benny. Emmet devises a heist to infiltrate Business's headquarters and disarm the Kragle. During the heist, Wyldstyle reveals to Emmet that her real name is Lucy. The heist almost succeeds until Emmet and his friends are captured and imprisoned. Lord Business decapitates Vitruvius and throws the Piece of Resistance into an abyss, before arming a self-destruct device that will execute all the captured Master Builders. Vitruvius reveals he made up the prophecy before he dies, but his spirit returns to tell Emmet that it is his self-belief that makes him the Special. Strapped to the self-destruct mechanism's battery, Emmet flings himself off the edge of the tower, disarming the mechanism and saving his friends and the Master Builders. Inspired by Emmet's sacrifice, Lucy rallies the Lego people across the universe to use whatever creativity they have to build machines and weapons to fight Business's forces.
The portal transports Emmet to the human world, where the events of his life are being played out in a basement by a young boy, Finn, on his father's Lego set. Finn's father — "The Man Upstairs" — chastises his son for creating hodgepodges of different playsets and begins to permanently glue his perceived "perfect" creations together. Realizing the danger, Emmet wills himself to move and gains Finn's attention. Finn returns Emmet and the Piece of Resistance to the set, where Emmet becomes Master Builder and confronts Business. In the human world, Finn's father looks at his son's creations and realizes that he was suppressing his son's creativity. Through a speech by Emmet, Finn tells his father that he is very special and has the power to change everything. Finn's father reconciles with his son, which plays out as Business reforming, capping the Kragle with the Piece of Resistance, and ungluing his victims with mineral spirits. After the world has been restored, Lucy and Emmet enter a relationship, with Batman's blessing. Finn's father grants permission for Finn's younger sister to play with the Lego sets as well, causing Duplo aliens to arrive in the Lego universe and threaten destruction.
