Title: Tokyo Godfathers
Rank: 745
Year: 2003
Rating: 7.8
Plot: One Christmas Eve, three homeless people—a middle-aged alcoholic named Gin, a crossdresser named Hana, and a dependent teenage runaway named Miyuki—discover an abandoned newborn while searching through the garbage for presents. On the baby is a note asking the finder to take good care of her and a key, leading to a bag with clues to the parents' identity. The trio sets out to find the parents. Hana names the baby Kiyoko, based on the Japanese translation of "Silent Night" literally meaning "pure child". Outside a cemetery, the group encounters a yakuza boss trapped under his car. That day, his daughter will marry the owner of the club where Kiyoko's mother used to work. At the wedding reception, the groom tells them that the baby's mother is a former bar girl named Sachiko. He gives them Sachiko's address, but the party is interrupted when a Latino hitman attempts to shoot the bride's father. The hitman kidnaps Miyuki and baby Kiyoko, holds them hostage and takes them to his home. There, Miyuki befriends the hitman's wife, and they begin bonding (despite their language barrier). During one of their talks, Miyuki confesses to fleeing her home after stabbing her controlling father when her beloved cat Angel went missing (believing that he had gotten rid of it).
Hana searches for Miyuki and Kiyoko while Gin takes care of an elderly homeless man who is dying in the street. After giving Gin a little red bag, the old man peacefully passes away. Some teenagers show up and beat up Gin and the man's corpse. Meanwhile, Hana finds the girls, and, looking for a place to stay, they go to Angel Tower, a club where Hana had worked at before assaulting a rude and intoxicated customer years ago. Gin, rescued by another member of the club, is also there. Here, it is revealed that Hana became homeless when his lover died after slipping on a bar of soap in the bathroom. The trio later discover that Sachiko's house has been torn down. They are informed of the unhappy relationship between Sachiko and her husband, who is a gambling alcoholic. Miyuki then sees a message from her father in the newspaper informing her that Angel has returned home. Realizing her mistake, Miyuki attempts to call her father, only to panic and hang up before she can say a word. The group rests at a store until they are told to leave by the clerk. Hana collapses, and Gin and Miyuki take him to the hospital. Once there, Gin finds his estranged daughter, who is also named Kiyoko, working as a nurse. Hana berates Gin in front of his daughter and storms out of the hospital, with Miyuki following behind with baby Kiyoko in hand. Hana and Miyuki find Sachiko about to jump off a bridge. Sachiko insists that her husband got rid of the baby without her knowledge, and Hana and Miyuki return the baby to her.
Gin finds Sachiko's husband, who confirms that Kiyoko was stolen by Sachiko from the hospital. They chase after Sachiko and Kiyoko. Miyuki chases Sachiko to the top of a building. Sachiko reveals she became pregnant hoping it would bring her closer to her husband. When her baby was stillborn, she decided to kidnap Kiyoko from the hospital, thinking in her grief the baby was hers. Sachiko jumps off the building, but Miyuki manages to catch her before she falls, but then Sachiko accidentally drops Kiyoko. Hana jumps off the building, catching the baby and clinging to a banner on the side of the building. As the banner begins to give way, a gust of wind miraculously slows its descent, allowing Hana and Kiyoko to land safely on the ground. Hana, Miyuki, and Gin are taken to the hospital. During their reunion, Miyuki drops the old man's red bag on the floor, revealing a winning lottery ticket. Kiyoko's real parents want to ask the trio to become her godparents. When a police inspector introduces them, the inspector is revealed to be Miyuki's father.
