Title: Parasite
Rank: 43
Year: 2019
Rating: 8.5
Plot: The Kim family live in a semi-basement flat (banjiha) in Seoul, have low-income jobs, and struggle for money. Min-hyuk, a university student, gives the family a scholar's rock meant to promise wealth. Leaving to study abroad, he suggests that the Kims' son, Ki-woo, pose as a university student to take over his job as an English language tutor for Da-hye, the daughter of the rich Park family. After his sister Ki-jung helps create a false certificate for him in Photoshop, Ki-woo, posing as a Yonsei University student, is subsequently hired by the Park family.
The Kim family schemes to get each member a job with the Park family. Ki-woo recommends "Jessica", actually his sister Ki-jung, as an art therapist for the Parks' young son, Da-song, who has been traumatised after seeing a "ghost" in their kitchen. Ki-jung frames Yoon, Mr Park's chauffeur, by making it appear he had a sexual encounter in the car, then recommends her father, Ki-taek, to take his place. The Kims exploit the peach allergy of the Parks' long-time housekeeper, Moon-gwang, to convince Mrs Park that she has tuberculosis, and the Kim matriarch, Chung-sook, is hired as her replacement. Ki-woo begins a secret romantic relationship with Da-hye.
When the Parks leave on a camping trip, the Kims revel in the luxuries of the house. Moon-gwang appears at the door, telling Chung-sook she left something in the basement. She goes through a hidden entrance to an underground bunker created by the architect and previous homeowner (who was too embarrassed to inform the Park family of its existence). There, Moon-gwang's husband Geun-sae is revealed to be living in the bunker while hiding from loan sharks; he is also revealed to be the "ghost", whom Da-song saw attempting to come out of the bunker to steal groceries from the Parks' refrigerator. Chung-sook refuses Moon-gwang's pleas to allow Geun-sae remain in the bunker in exchange for regular payments, but the three other eavesdropping Kims accidentally reveal themselves. Moon-gwang videotapes them on her phone inadvertently revealing their deception and threatens to expose them to the Park family.
The Parks call to say that they are returning early due to a severe rainstorm. The Kims subdue Moon-gwang and Geun-sae, tying them up and hiding them in the bunker.  Ki-jung, Ki-taek and Ki-woo hide under a table, and overhear Mr Park's comments about Ki-taek's odour, one he associates with lower-class people. The Kims eventually escape, but the torrential rain floods their flat with sewer water, forcing them to take shelter in a gymnasium with other, similarly displaced people.
The next day, Mrs Park hosts a house party for Da-song's birthday with the elder Kims' assistance; the younger Kims are invited as guests. Ki-woo enters the bunker with his scholar's rock to kill Geun-sae and Moon-gwang. Moon-gwang is already dead from a concussion she received during yesterday's brawl, but Ki-woo is attacked by Geun-sae, who uses the rock to knock Ki-woo out, leaving him lying in a pool of blood in the basement. Geun-sae then stabs Ki-jung with a kitchen knife in front of the horrified guests. Da-song suffers another seizure upon seeing Geun-sae again. Geun-sae and Chung-sook grapple with each other; she fatally impales him with a barbecue skewer. While Ki-taek tends to Ki-jung, Mr Park orders Ki-taek to drive Da-song to the hospital. In the chaos, Ki-taek, upon seeing Mr Park's disgusted reaction to Geun-sae's odour, angrily kills him with the knife, then flees.
Weeks later, Ki-woo is recovering from a brain operation. He and Chung-sook are convicted of fraud and put on probation. Ki-jung has died from her injury, while Ki-taek cannot be found. Geun-sae is assumed to have been an insane homeless man, and neither his nor Ki-taek's motive for the murders are known. Ki-woo spies on the Parks' former home, now owned by a German family, and sees a message in Morse code from a kitchen light. Ki-taek, hiding in the bunker, has buried Moon-gwang in the garden and sends the message every day, hoping Ki-woo will see it. Still living in their basement flat with his mother, Ki-woo writes a letter to Ki-taek, vowing to earn enough money to buy the house and free him.
