Title: Badhaai Ho
Rank: 595
Year: 2018
Rating: 7.9
Plot: Nakul Kaushik is a 25/26-year-old youngster and is in a stable relationship with his colleague, Renee. Her mother Sangeeta likes him and approves of their relationship. His father Jeetender 'Jeetu' Kaushik, is a middle-aged man working in the Railways. His mother Priyamvada is a typical housewife. His younger brother Gullar is a high school student. His grandmother Durga always quarrels with Priyamvada and dominates over her son Jeetu. One day, she taunts Priyamvada, who gets upset. Jeetu consoles his wife and they get intimate.
19 weeks later, Priyamvada realizes she is pregnant. She finds it sinful to abort the child. Jeetu announces Priyamvada's third pregnancy to the family. The two sons are embarrassed and start to avoid their parents, friends, and society. Durga shocked and upset as well.
The news becomes viral and they are made fun of by family, friends, relatives, and society. Nakul begins to avoid Renee. Jeetu and Priyamvada ask Nakul and Gullar to accompany them to Meerut for their cousin's wedding. Both of them refuse by making excuses, not wanting to interact with anyone. This makes Jeetu angry at them and he leaves with Priyamvada and Durga. Meanwhile, Renee offers a room date to cheer Nakul up. But he is unable to get intimate with her as it reminds him of Priyamvada's pregnancy. Sangeeta gets to know about Priyamvada's pregnancy from Renee. She is shocked and speaks ill about the Kaushik family. Nakul overhears this, delivers a harsh monologue to Sangeeta, and breaks up with Renee.
While in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar, Jeetu's elder sister-in-law and sister ridicules Priyamvada for her late pregnancy. For the first time, Durga defends Priyamvada for her dutifulness and makes them realize their selfishness and mean attitude towards her.
Gullar reveals to Nakul that some boys made fun of him at school and when he responded to them, one of them hit him. Nakul goes to the school the next day and Gullar slaps the boy thrice. Nakul meets own friends and when one of them taunts him, he gives a befitting reply. He reconciles with his parents and begins to fulfill his duties as a son. Priyamvada realizes that Nakul has broken up with Renee, and she tells him to apologize to Renee's mother. Nakul reluctantly agrees.
As the baby shower preparations begin, Priyamvada goes into labor pain and is immediately taken to the hospital. Sangeeta tells Renee about Nakul's apology and also that she has forgiven Nakul. Renee rushes to Nakul's home and then to the hospital. After the delivery, the doctor announces the birth of a baby girl.
15 months later, Nakul and Renee get engaged in the presence of their families including his baby sister.
