Title: Elite Squad
Rank: 427
Year: 2007
Rating: 8
Plot: Roberto Nascimento, a BOPE captain, leads an operation to secure the Turano neighbourhood before Pope John Paul II's overnight visit at the Archbishop's home near the favela. With his wife Rosane pregnant, Roberto searches for a successor at the unit before switching to a desk job. 
Rookie PMERJ officers and best friends André Matias and Neto Gouveia handle menial work as instructed to them by their corrupt seniors: Neto supervises the police auto mechanic shop, whilst Matias is responsible for registering and filing police complaints in a small archive office. André also attends law school, where he begins a relationship with Maria, and meets her friends Roberta and Edu; all three are members of a NGO that operates in an area ruled by drug lord Baiano. Baiano provides marijuana to Matias' friends, who sell it on campus. André also befriends Romerito, a boy who, like himself, suffers from myopia.
Neto applies to another department, but his transfer is denied. Disgusted by corruption and led by fellow officer Fábio, Neto and André steal the police's bribe money to fix as many police cars as possible. Their superior, Captain Oliveira, finds out and demotes them to kitchen work as punishment and orders Fábio—whom he believes stole from him—to meet drug traffickers at a community funk party in Morro da Babilônia to enquire about payment. 
Fábio realizes this is a set-up to kill him and discreetly warns Neto and André, who rush to a vantage point at the party. They use a sniper rifle telescope to watch Oliveira and other policemen but Neto accidentally shoots, causing a deadly gunfight between the officers and traffickers; as André and Neto attempt to flee the scene, Roberto and his men rescue all the officers. After the shootout, André is photographed by the press. André and Neto apply for BOPE, motivated by their honesty and devotion, and eagerness for action. At the NGO office, Baiano confronts Maria and her friends with a newspaper featuring André's picture and threatens to kill them if they bring policemen inside his territory.
BOPE training proves to be gruesome, with many candidates quitting the program, including Fábio (who applied as a way to avoid Oliveira), but both Neto and André pass; Neto celebrates by getting a BOPE tattoo on his arm. André's relationship with Maria ends and he confronts Edu, ordering him to arrange a meet with Romerito the next day to give him a pair of glasses. Edu reveals André's plan to Baiano, who sets an ambush to kill him. Neto informs André of a job interview at a law firm that will conflict with meeting Romerito, and volunteers to deliver the glasses in his place: this results in Neto being mortally wounded. When Baiano prepares to execute him, he notices his BOPE tattoo and goes into hiding for fear of retaliation.
After Neto's funeral, André, Roberto, and the men make daily incursions into Baiano's slum, torturing several dealers into revealing his whereabouts. After one of them reveals Edu tipped Baiano, Matias storms into a peace walk, beats Edu, and insults Maria and the others. BOPE locate and corner Baiano: Roberto orders André to shoot Baiano in the face with a shotgun, as revenge for Neto's death and his final test for BOPE. As Baiano pleads, André cocks the gun and the screen cuts to black as a shot is heard.
