Title: Apocalypto
Rank: 615
Year: 2006
Rating: 7.8
Plot: While hunting in the Mesoamerican rainforest, Jaguar Paw, his father Flint Sky, and their fellow tribesmen encounter a group of refugees fleeing from war and devastation. Returning to their village, Flint Sky notes that the refugees are sick with fear and urges Jaguar Paw to never allow fear to infect him. Later that night, the tribe gathers around an elder who tells a prophetic story about a being who is consumed by an emptiness that cannot be satisfied, despite having all the gifts of the world offered to him. The being will continue blindly taking until there is nothing left in the world for him to take, and the world is no more. 
The next morning, the village is attacked by Mayan raiders led by Zero Wolf, and many are killed, including Flint Sky, who is killed by the sadistic raider Middle Eye. During the attack, Jaguar Paw hides both his pregnant wife Seven and their young son Turtles Run in a hole before he is captured. In the aftermath, the raiders round up the surviving villagers who are forced on a long march through the jungle. Meanwhile, Seven and Turtles Run remain trapped in the hole and they struggle to escape it.
Along the way, the raiders and their captives encounter razed forests and vast fields of failed maize crops, alongside villages decimated by an unknown disease. They then encounter an infected little girl who prophesies the end of the Mayan world. Arriving in the city, the captives are divided; the women are sold into slavery while the men are escorted to the top of a pyramid where they are brutally sacrificed to appease the gods. As Jaguar Paw is laid out on the altar, a solar eclipse occurs and the Mayans take the event as an omen that the gods are satisfied, thereby sparing the remaining captives. However, the remaining captives are taken by the raiders to their barracks to be used as target practice; the raiders offer them freedom if they can dodge the missiles thrown at them, while Zero Wolf's son Cut Rock finishes the wounded off. The first pair of runners are easily struck down. Jaguar Paw follows thereafter, and is also wounded, drawing the attention of Cut Rock. However, Cut Rock is then distracted by one of the earlier wounded runners, whose sacrifice allows Jaguar Paw to fatally wound Cut Rock and escape.
An enraged Zero Wolf leads his men to hunt down Jaguar Paw. Reaching the jungle, Jaguar Paw uses its natural resources to kill his pursuers one by one. Among those he kills are Middle Eye, whom he bludgeons with a stone hatchet, and Zero Wolf, whom he lures into a trap, where he is impaled by a large wooden spike. The last two raiders continue to pursue Jaguar Paw on the outskirts of his village. Reaching the shores amidst a heavy downpour, all three are shocked and stunned to witness the arrival of Spanish conquistadors. While the two raiders go to meet the foreigners, Jaguar Paw races back to his village and rescues his family who are being drowned by the downpour. Jaguar Paw is also overjoyed to see his infant son who was born underwater.
Later, the reunited family gazes at the Spanish ships. Jaguar Paw chooses not to approach the foreigners, and they depart to start a new life in the forest away from both the decadent Mayans and the Spanish.
