Title: Shadow of a Doubt
Rank: 714
Year: 1943
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Charlotte "Charlie" Newton is a bored teenage girl living in the idyllic town of Santa Rosa, California. She receives wonderful news: Her mother's younger brother (her eponym), Charles Oakley, is arriving for a visit. Upon his arrival, everyone is delighted, especially young Charlie. As a gesture of affection, Uncle Charlie gives his niece an emerald ring. However, she notices that it has someone else's initials engraved inside. 
Not long afterward, two men appear at the Newton home, trying to take Uncle Charlie's picture. Young Charlie guesses they are undercover police detectives. One of them explains her uncle is one of two suspects who may be the "Merry Widow Murderer". Charlie refuses to believe it at first, but learns that the initials engraved inside the ring he gave her match those of one of the murdered women. She then notices Uncle Charlie begin to act strangely.   
During dinner one night, Uncle Charlie lets his guard down and reveals his hatred of rich widows. He describes them as "fat, wheezing animals". Horrified, young Charlie runs out of the room. Uncle Charlie follows and takes her into a seedy bar. He admits he is one of the two murder suspects. He begs her for help; she reluctantly agrees not to say anything, as long as he leaves soon to avoid a horrible confrontation that would destroy her mother, who idolizes her younger brother. 

News breaks that an alternative suspect was chased by police and killed by an airplane propeller; it is assumed that he was the murderer. Uncle Charlie is delighted to be exonerated, but young Charlie knows all his secrets. Not long afterward, she falls down some dangerously steep stairs, which she later discovers were deliberately cut through. 
After his supposed exoneration, Uncle Charlie indicates that he wants to settle down in Santa Rosa. Young Charlie says she will kill him if he stays. Later that night, Uncle Charlie lures her into the garage, starts the car engine, and jams the door so that the garage will fill with exhaust fumes. A friend happens to come by the house, hears Charlie banging on the garage door, and rescues her.   
Uncle Charlie soon announces he is leaving for San Francisco – along with Mrs. Porter, a rich widow. At the train station, young Charlie boards the train, claiming to want to see Uncle Charlie's compartment. He plans to shove his niece out of the train after it picks up speed. A struggle between them ensues, and Uncle Charlie – the "Merry Widow Murderer" – loses, falling in front of an oncoming train. 
At his funeral, Uncle Charlie is sentimentally honored by the townspeople. The detective returns, and Charlie confesses that she withheld crucial information. They resolve to keep Uncle Charlie's crimes a secret.
