Title: Close
Rank: 649
Year: 2022
Rating: 7.8
Plot: In rural Belgium, two 13-year-old boys, Léo and Rémi, are best friends who exhibit a deeply intimate affection for one another. They have a habit of sleeping in the same bed in Rémi's bedroom. Rémi's parents, Sophie and Peter, accept this without judgment and love Léo like a second child. Léo's family helps run agricultural work at a flower farm, where he and Rémi like to play together.
At school, a trio of female classmates openly ask if the two are a couple. Léo vehemently denies it, while Rémi does not comment. Léo becomes uneasy with this external perception, exacerbated by homophobic slurs directed towards him by other boys. Fearing being ostracized, he begins new friendships and takes up ice hockey, from which he deliberately excludes Rémi. One night, while sleeping over at Rémi's, Léo decides to sleep on a separate mattress. Upon waking up, he finds Rémi sleeping on the same mattress as him. Léo turns aggressive, leaving Rémi hurt and confused. Léo becomes progressively distant from Rémi, despite Rémi's attempts at interaction. He stops sleeping over, starts riding his bicycle with students other than Rémi, continues participating in ice hockey, and spends more time working with his family at the farm. Rémi finally confronts him, to which he acts defensive. Distraught and angry, Rémi attacks Léo and the two fight.
One day, after a school trip from which Rémi is absent, the class is informed that Rémi has committed suicide, which Léo believes his withdrawal caused. However, he closes off his emotions from everyone else, unable to talk to anyone about it during the class therapy sessions offered by the school. The fact that his classmates describe Rémi in obituaries as a happy and friendly boy triggers a defiant opposition in Léo. Léo unsuccessfully tries to suppress his inner pain and cover it up by resuming ice hockey and gardening work with his family. Although none of his new friendships come close to the deep connection he had with Rémi, Léo is able to confide in his older brother Charlie for comfort.
Following Rémi's funeral, Léo knows he has to talk to Sophie, wanting to maintain his connection with her, but is anxious to confess. When Sophie and Peter have dinner with Léo's family, Peter breaks down when Charlie describes his future plans, as Sophie and Peter mourn the loss of Rémi's future. When summer vacation begins, Léo visits Sophie at her workplace without warning. As she drives him home, he finally confesses to her that he believes Rémi's suicide is his fault for pushing him away. After an initial moment of tension, she tenderly hugs and comforts him as they cry together. Sometime later, she and Peter have moved away, leaving the house empty. Léo walks across the field where he and Rémi used to run through, remembering their connection and allowing himself to finally grieve for Rémi.
