Title: Jai Bhim
Rank: 15
Year: 2021
Rating: 8.8
Plot: In 1993, Rajakannu and Sengeni, a couple from the Irula tribe, laboured in the fields of oppressive caste men to control rat infestations and catch venomous snakes. Rajakannu is called to a rich man's dwelling to capture a snake that sneaks inside a room. The next day, a burglary case gets reported when the man's wife reported missing jewellery pieces from her closet and doubts Rajakannu. The police invaded Rajakannu's home and brutally beat and unlawfully detained a pregnant Sengeni. The police also arrest Rajakannu's brother Iruttappan, his sister Pachaiammal, and his brother-in-law Mosakutty and torture them to confess Rajakannu's whereabouts. The police imprison Rajakannu. They tortured him to make him confess to the crime but  released Sengeni. Later, she gets informed that all three men in detention are absconding, and the police threaten her further to divulge their whereabouts.
Mythra, who teaches adults from the Irula tribe, learns about Chandru, a lawyer who fights cases for tribal communities, and convinces him to seek justice for Sengeni. After listening to Sengeni's narration of events, Chandru files a habeas corpus case in court, but the court advises them to file in a lower court. Chandru asks for a witness examination, which is not the procedure in a habeas corpus case. But Chandru cites the Rajan case, and the court yields. The Solicitor General appearing for the police, based on the police officers' evidence, argues that Rajakannu and the other two had absconded from police custody the night they were arrested. Chandru discovers they were committing perjury and asks the court to investigate Sub-Inspector Gurumurthy, head constable Veerasamy, and constable Kirubakaran.
Advocate General Ram Mohan takes over the legal case and claims that the three accused have fled to Kerala. Varadarajulu, the employer of Iruttapan, acknowledges that Iruttapan informed him that he had fled after committing a robbery. Chandru discovers that the three policemen in question went to Kerala to make a phone call to Varadarajulu, and Guru mimicked the voice of Iruttapan. The court appoints IG Perumalsamy as the lead officer in this case upon Chandru's request. After searching for weeks, Chandru, Perumalsamy, and Mythra find Rajakannu's corpse in the middle of a road close to the border of Pondicherry the day after he supposedly fled, and they cremate his body. Both believe that Rajakannu did not die due to a car accident but due to lock-up murder.
Chandru talks to a pathologist who conducted Rajakannu's postmortem. He believes Rajakannu's death was due to a broken rib cage but believes a car could have run over him and caused this injury. Veerasamy confesses to Ram Mohan that Rajakannu died in custody. Veerasamy called Guru after Rajakannu's death. Guru tells Veerasamy to stage that both had escaped and left Rajakannu on the road, framing his death as due to a car accident. Mosakutty and Iruttapan got sent to another jail in Kerala. After hearing this, Ram Mohan advises them to maintain their narrative in court. Chandru checks the call history of the police station and informs the court that a call to Guru's residence was made at 9:10 p.m., which does not corroborate Veerasamy's evidence. Chandru asks for more time to investigate.
Chandru, Mythra, Sengeni, and the Irular tribe campaigned against the injustice that had happened. Chandru finds that Irutappan called Varadarajulu, but the police coerced him to make that call. Mythra finds Iruttapan and Mosakutty, and they testify in court about the torture all three of them went through and how the police officers killed Rajakannu. Perumalsamy says the police officers took bribes from the actual thief. Chandru also says that on the road where they found tyre marks near Rajakannu's corpse. The footprints matched Guru's and Kiruba's footprints. After hearing this evidence, the court announced the verdict: they arrested the police officers who killed Rajakannu. Sengeni will get ₹3 lakhs (equivalent to ₹18 lakh or US$23,000 in 2020) and half a ground land as compensation, and Iruttappan, Mosakutty, and Pachaiamma will get ₹2 lakhs (equivalent to ₹12 lakh or US$15,000 in 2020) each. Sengeni thanks Chandru for his help, and Chandru attends the inauguration of Sengeni's new house, fulfilling Rajakannu's dream to get Sengeni a new home.
