Title: Paddington 2
Rank: 686
Year: 2017
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Paddington, having settled with the Brown family in Windsor Gardens, offers his neighbors emotional support in various ways. To purchase a one-of-a-kind pop-up book of London in Samuel Gruber's antique shop for his aunt Lucy's 100th birthday, Paddington performs several odd jobs and saves his wages, but he later witnesses a burglary at the shop in which the book is stolen. Paddington gives chase, but the thief escapes, and Paddington is framed and arrested. The thief returns home and is revealed to be Phoenix Buchanan, an egotistical actor who also lives in Windsor Gardens. In court, Mr Gruber states that he does not believe that Paddington stole the book. However, with no evidence of the thief's existence, Paddington is convicted and sent to prison.
The prison's short-tempered chef, Knuckles, recruits Paddington after being impressed by his marmalade sandwich recipe. The Browns work to clear Paddington's name, putting up sketches of the thief all over London. Buchanan uses the book to locate a series of clues within London's landmarks, which unveil the location of a secret treasure. During their efforts to prove Paddington's innocence, the Browns encounter a fortune teller who informs them that the book leads to the hidden fortune of the original author. 
With Paddington's influence, the prison becomes a much livelier and friendlier place, but Paddington struggles to remain positive when the Browns are unable to prove his innocence, but keep hunting. Knuckles and two other prisoners, Phibs and Spoon, later tell Paddington that although the Browns mean well, they will eventually forget about him. 
Becoming convinced that Buchanan is the culprit, the Browns look for the stolen book inside his house. They find a secret attic where Buchanan's various costumes are stashed, including the disguise he wore to steal the book. Meanwhile, the Browns' investigation causes them to miss visiting Paddington in prison. 
Paddington, believing the Browns have forgotten him, joins Knuckles, Phibs and Spoon in a prison break. They promise to aid in proving his innocence, but after escaping, they promptly abandon the idea in order to flee the country, inviting Paddington to join them. Paddington refuses and, while avoiding the police, uses a public telephone to contact the Browns, who assert that Buchanan is the real culprit. To catch Buchanan, they arrange to meet at Paddington Station, where a carnival train carrying the hidden fortune is due to leave.
Paddington reaches the station, hides in a litter bin to avoid the police, and boards the train just as it leaves. The Browns pursue on a LNER Peppercorn Class A1, at the opposite platform. Buchanan finds the hidden fortune, but is thwarted by Paddington. Henry, Judy and Mrs. Bird catch up and board the other train to confront Buchanan, who overwhelms them and escapes. He severs the coupling of the train's rear carriage (with Paddington locked inside), but is photographed by Judy while holding the book, before Henry knocks him out.
Paddington is still trapped in the rear carriage when it derails and crashes into a nearby river. Mary tries to rescue Paddington, but struggles to open the locked carriage; she is soon assisted by Knuckles, Phibs, and Spoon, who had a change of heart and decide to help Paddington as promised.
Paddington falls into a coma, but wakes up on Lucy's birthday to find himself at home. He learns that he has been exonerated, and that Buchanan has been arrested. Paddington is disappointed that he cannot give Lucy the book, which was taken in as evidence, but discovers that the Browns, with the help of their neighbours, arranged for Lucy to come to London herself. Paddington hugs Lucy, wishing her a happy birthday.
During the credits, Knuckles, Phibs, and Spoon are pardoned, and Knuckles opens a sandwich business. Buchanan is sentenced to 10 years in prison; six months later, he is shown to be putting his experience as a performer to further use by hosting shows for the inmates and providing entertainment throughout the building.
