Title: Mississippi Burning
Rank: 674
Year: 1988
Rating: 7.8
Plot: In 1964, three civil rights workers – two Jewish and one black – go missing while in Jessup County, Mississippi, organizing a voter registry for African Americans. The FBI sends Alan Ward and Rupert Anderson to investigate. Ward is a Northerner, senior in rank but much younger than Anderson, and approaches the investigation by the book. In contrast, Anderson, a former Mississippi sheriff, is more nuanced in his approach. The pair find it difficult to conduct interviews with the local townspeople, as Sheriff Ray Stuckey and his deputies influence the public and are linked to a branch of the Ku Klux Klan. The wife of Deputy Sheriff Clinton Pell reveals to Anderson in a discreet conversation that the three missing men have been murdered and their bodies buried in an earthen dam. Pell beats his wife brutally in retribution after discovering her betrayal.
Ward and Anderson's different approaches spill over into a physical fight which Ward wins but concedes his methods have been ineffective and gives Anderson carte blanche to deal with the problem his way. Anderson devises a plan to indict members of the Klan for civil rights violations, instead of murder, as civil rights are federal charges where conviction is more certain compared to a state-level charge of murder. The FBI arranges a kidnapping of Mayor Tilman, taking him to a remote shack, where he is left with a black man, who threatens to castrate him unless he speaks out. Tilman gives him a complete description of the killings, including the names of those involved. The abductor is revealed to be an FBI operative assigned to intimidate Tilman. Although the obtained information is inadmissible in court due to coercion, it does prove valuable to the investigators.
Anderson and Ward concoct a plan, luring identified Klan collaborators to a bogus meeting, but the men soon realize they have been set up and leave without discussing the murders. The FBI then concentrates on Lester Cowens, a Klansman of interest who exhibits a nervous demeanor, which the agents believe might yield a confession. The Feds pick him up and interrogate him. Anderson stages a tussle with Pell at the local barbershop in retaliation for the attack on his wife and takes off. Later, Cowens is at home when a shotgun blast shatters his window. After seeing a burning cross on his lawn, he attempts to flee in his truck but is caught by several hooded men who intend to hang him. The team arrives to rescue him, having staged the entire scene where the hooded men are revealed to be other FBI agents.
Cowens, believing that his redneck brothers have threatened his life because of his admissions to the FBI, incriminates his accomplices. The Klansmen are all charged with civil rights violations, as this can be prosecuted at the federal level (murder was a state-based charge in 1964). Most of the perpetrators are convicted, while Stuckey is acquitted of all charges. The FBI later finds Tilman has hanged himself, and Ward and Bird come to no conclusions as to why. Mrs. Pell returns to her home, which has been completely ransacked by vandals. She resolves to stay and rebuild her life, free of her husband. Before leaving town, Anderson and Ward visit an integrated congregation, gathered at an African-American cemetery, where the black civil rights activist's desecrated gravestone reads, "Not Forgotten."
