Title: Winter Sleep
Rank: 302
Year: 2014
Rating: 8.1
Plot: Aydın, a former actor, owns a mountaintop hotel in Cappadocia, as well as several properties which he rents out to local tenants. He leads a more idyllic life than most people around him in the region. Educated and wealthy, he spends his time writing columns for a local newspaper and researching the history of Turkish theater, of which he hopes to write a book someday.
One day, Aydın and his assistant Hidayet are driving down to the village when a stone shatters the window. It was thrown by İlyas, the son of İsmail, one of Aydın's tenants who is several months behind in the rent. When Hidayet confronts the father, it turns out that Aydın's people had already sent a collection agency that took İsmail's television and refrigerator, with İsmail getting beaten up by the police for resisting. The situation escalates until İsmail's brother Hamdi intervenes.
Hamdi, the eager-to-please local imam, brings the young İlyas to Aydın in an attempt to make amends for the glass-breaking incident. However, this only serves to annoy Aydin, inspiring him to write a column on how an imam should really give a proper example to their community. At first, his sister Necla wonders why Aydın does not use his writing talent in a better place than the local newspaper. Later, she reverses her view and tells him that he is just superficially and sentimentally criticising other people from his comfortable armchair. This results in a long chain of snide remarks made back and forth at each other. This reversal occurs after Necla mentions to Aydın's wife Nihal that Necla might be better off going back to her ex-husband, after which Nihal tells Necla that she is free to leave even though it is a stupid idea.
Nihal is much younger than her husband Aydın. She tries to give meaning to her life by fundraising for developing schools, an activity for which Aydın has not shown much interest. However, when Nihal organizes a fundraiser event in their home, Aydın becomes annoyed and tells her that the fundraiser event will be a guaranteed failure due to her lack of experience and bookkeeping skills. This turns into an emotional argument, where he tells her that she is free to divorce from him if she wishes so. Finally, Aydın states that he will leave for Istanbul for several months to make arrangements for his book. He warns her that she should not trust Levent (Nadir Sarıbacak), one of the other people involved in the fundraiser, since Aydın considers Levent to lack moral values. Before he leaves, Aydın makes a large anonymous donation in cash.
The next day, Hidayet takes Aydın to the train station, carrying all the luggage while Aydın comfortably walks empty-handed. Due to heavy snow fall, the train is severely delayed, and Aydın decides that they will visit Aydın's friend Suavi in a nearby village. Suavi welcomes Aydın's visit, but Levent also shows up, as Levent and Suavi had agreed earlier to go out hunting. They spend the evening drinking and talking. There is some tension between Aydın and Levent, as Levent makes insinuations that Aydın did not do enough to help in the aftermath of an earthquake, six years earlier.
In the meantime, Nihal visits the house of Hamdi, İsmail, İlyas, and the sick grandmother. Nihal learns that İsmail was unemployed after a prison sentence for stabbing a lingerie thief and that İlyas had been suffering from pneumonia. Their financial difficulties are due to the fact that Hamdi has to take care of all of them from his modest income as an imam. Nihal offers the money that Aydın had donated, around 10,000 lira ($5,900 in 2013), enough to buy a house in the area. İsmail is insulted by what he sees as an attempt to pay off her conscience and burns the money in the fireplace, to the horror of Nihal.
The film ends as Aydın returns home the next day. As Nihal stares out of the window, silently, Aydin's voice is heard explaining that he cannot live without Nihal, even if she does not love him anymore. Aydin starts his procrastinated project of writing about the history of Turkish theatre.
