Title: Another Round
Rank: 806
Year: 2020
Rating: 7.7
Plot: Teachers Martin, Tommy, Peter, and Nikolaj are colleagues and friends that work at a gymnasium school in Copenhagen. All four struggle with unmotivated students and feel that their lives have become boring and stale. At a dinner celebrating Nikolaj's 40th birthday, the group begins to discuss the theory of psychiatrist Finn Skårderud — that humans are born with a blood alcohol content (BAC) deficiency of 0.05%, and that being at 0.05% makes one more creative and relaxed. Martin is confronted by his senior students and their parents, who express that he has become a barrier to them passing their history exams.
The friends decide to embark on an experiment to test Skårderud's theory. They start a group log of what occurs when they start drinking at regular intervals to maintain this blood alcohol level. Two of the friends have personal challenges that also make this experiment attractive: Martin is depressed and alienated from his family and students, Nikolaj's wife seems to have contempt for him. Each man has his own way of sneaking alcohol during the day while teaching or coaching children, but they never drink and drive. They agree to a set of rules: their BAC should never be below 0.05 and they should not drink after 8:00pm or on the weekends.
Within a short period of time, all four members of the group find both their work and private lives more enjoyable and successful. Martin, in particular, is delighted as he finally manages to reconnect with his wife and children. His teaching of history becomes inspired, and his students begin enjoying class and respecting him. He teaches history through the lens of drinking alcohol, connecting with heavy drinking students. Agreeing that the experiment should be taken further, the group increases the daily BAC limit to 0.10. Still finding their lives improved, one night they decide to drink to oblivion to test the liberating effects, but after coming home incapacitated, both Martin and Nikolaj are confronted by their families. Martin's family express their worries, revealing that they knew he has been drinking for weeks. He and his wife express how each has drawn away from the other, and she admits to infidelity. The group abandons the experiment. Martin and his wife have split up, and while he tries to make amends, she rejects him.
All the members of the group have stopped drinking during the day with the exception of Tommy, who the others try to take care of. But at a faculty meeting where the headmaster reveals that teachers have been drinking at work, Tommy arrives incredibly drunk. Later, Tommy boards his boat drunk with his old dog, sails out on the ocean, and ends his life by drowning at sea.
The three remaining members of the group go out to dinner after Tommy's funeral to celebrate him, and enjoy sparkling wine. While dining, Martin's wife texts him that she misses him a lot. The recently graduated students drive by, and Martin, Peter and Nikolaj join them in celebrating and drinking at the harbour. Martin, a former jazz ballet dancer, dances with the rest of the partygoers, which he had refused up to this point despite his colleagues' urging. His dance becomes increasingly energetic and joyous before jumping off the harbour.
