Title: The Banshees of Inisherin
Rank: 760
Year: 2022
Rating: 7.7
Plot: At the tail end of the Irish Civil War in the spring of 1923, on the Irish isle of Inisherin (literally "the island of Ireland"), fiddler Colm Doherty abruptly begins ignoring his lifelong best friend and drinking buddy Pádraic Súilleabháin. Colm has decided that Pádraic, a man respected by the islanders, is too dull for him, and he would rather spend the remainder of his life composing music and doing things for which he will be remembered. Pádraic is devastated and refuses to accept the rejection, while Colm only becomes more resistant to his old friend's attempts to make amends. Colm eventually gives Pádraic an ultimatum: every time Pádraic comes to talk with him, Colm will cut off one of his own fingers.
The local Garda, Peadar, beats his troubled son Dominic severely for drinking his alcohol, and Pádraic and his sister Siobhán take Dominic in for a night. While delivering milk to the market, Pádraic is insulted by Peadar and retaliates by making public the fact that Peadar abuses his son. Peadar punches him to the ground. Having witnessed this, Colm drives Pádraic home; the two do not speak.
Siobhán and Dominic try to defuse the pair's feud, to no avail. Pádraic drunkenly confronts Colm in the pub over his lack of "niceness", also chastising Peadar over the fact that he molests Dominic. Colm remarks that this is the most interesting Pádraic has been and mutters: "I think I like him again now." The next morning, not remembering what he has said, Pádraic attempts to apologise to Colm but the conversation goes badly. Colm responds by cutting off his left index finger and throwing it at Pádraic's door.
Pádraic later sees Colm meeting with a fiddler from the mainland. Jealous, Pádraic tricks the fiddler into returning home by lying about his father being hit by a bread van. As the tensions worsen, local elder Mrs. McCormick warns Pádraic that death will come to the island soon. Meanwhile, Siobhán sympathetically rejects Dominic's romantic advances.
Pádraic tells Dominic about what he did to the fiddler, and Dominic expresses his disappointment in Pádraic's behaviour. Pádraic becomes convinced that this will make him interesting enough for Colm and visits him, starting another confrontation. Colm reveals he has finished composing his song, "The Banshees of Inisherin". Pádraic thinks they have come to a point of reconciliation and invites Colm to the pub, but before leaving, Pádraic mentions he lied to the fiddler to get him off the island. Instead of meeting Pádraic at the pub, Colm cuts off all four of his remaining left fingers and throws them at Padraic's door.
Bored of life on the island and disgusted by the pair's feud, Siobhán moves to the mainland for a job in a library. Pádraic comes home to find his pet donkey Jenny has choked on one of Colm's fingers and died. He tells Colm he will burn his house down the next day at 2:00 p.m., regardless of whether Colm is in it. The next day Pádraic sets fire to Colm's house as promised. Pádraic looks in a window and sees Colm calmly sitting inside. Pádraic leaves, taking Colm's dog Sammy with him. Peadar goes to Pádraic's house, but is led away by Mrs. McCormick, who takes him to Dominic's corpse floating in the nearby lake.
The next morning, Pádraic, with Sammy, finds Colm standing on the beach beside his burnt-out house. Colm apologises for the donkey's death and suggests destroying the house has ended their war. Pádraic informs him that it only would have ended if he had stayed inside the house. Having not heard rifle fire from the mainland recently, Colm wonders if the Civil War is coming to an end, Pádraic replies he is sure the fighting will begin again soon because "some things there's no moving on from and I think that's a good thing". As Pádraic turns to leave, Colm thanks him for looking after Sammy. "Any time," Pádraic responds. Unbeknownst to them, Mrs. McCormick is observing them from a distance by Colm's burned cottage.
