Title: Hot Fuzz
Rank: 637
Year: 2007
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Nicholas Angel, a high-achieving Metropolitan Police officer, is promoted to Sergeant, but his resentful colleagues arrange for him to be reassigned to the small rural town of Sandford, Gloucestershire, a regular "Village of the Year" winner. Angel is soon frustrated by the mundanity of the village, his colleagues, and the local police and Neighbourhood Watch Alliance (NWA) commitment to low crime statistics rather than law enforcement. His partner, Danny Butterman, whom he (unknowingly) arrested for drink-driving, is a fan of buddy cop films and is the son of Inspector Frank Butterman, Angel's superior.
A cloaked axe-wielding figure decapitates Martin Blower and Eve Draper, the two lead actors of an am-dram production of Romeo and Juliet, whom Angel had pulled over for speeding, and stages it as a car crash. Angel is the only officer who suspects foul play. Sent to resolve a small dispute, Angel discovers an illegal weapons stash, including an old sea mine, and confiscates it. Angel warms to Danny, and together they binge-watch action movies. That night, a cloaked figure attacks wealthy land developer George Merchant in his home and kills him in a deliberate gas explosion.
Angel suspects that the killings are connected to a recent property deal. Local journalist Tim Messenger approaches Angel at a village fête, claiming to have information. However, a cloaked figure dislodges masonry atop the church's tower, which falls and kills Messenger. Whilst buying Danny a late birthday gift, Angel learns from Leslie Tiller, the village florist, about her plans to sell her land to Merchant's business partners. While Angel retrieves his notebook, she is stabbed with her garden shears; Angel gives chase but loses the killer. Angel suspects supermarket manager Simon Skinner, as the property deal would have built a rival supermarket. However, Skinner has an alibi.
After surmising that there may be multiple killers, Angel is attacked in his hotel room by one of Skinner's employees, Michael "Lurch" Armstrong. Angel incapacitates him and learns of a secret NWA meeting at Sandford Castle. Angel confronts the NWA, led by Frank, who reveals they committed the murders, staged as accidents, for various petty reasons as each victim threatened Sandford's chances of winning Village of the Year. Frank's late wife Irene put everything into helping Sandford win the first "Village of the Year", but travellers ruined their chances the night before the judges arrived, driving her to suicide. Frank has since vowed to win Sandford the Village of the Year award every year, no matter the cost. Angel flees and falls into the castle's catacombs, where he finds the corpses of the NWA's other victims. Danny appears and fakes killing Angel. Pretending to dispose of the body, Danny drives Angel away and urges him to return to London for his own safety. At a petrol station, Angel sees a rack of the films he and Danny bonded over and decides to return to Sandford.
After arming himself with the confiscated guns, he and Danny engage in a shoot-out with the NWA. When Frank orders the other officers to arrest them, the pair convince them that Frank is the culprit. Frank flees and the officers besiege the supermarket, with Skinner fleeing in a car with Frank. Angel corners Skinner at Sandford's model village, and after a fight, Skinner is impaled by a miniature church steeple. Frank attempts to escape in Angel's car but a missing swan that Angel and Danny had recaptured earlier attacks him.
Angel's former superiors arrive and ask him to return to London, as the crime rate has risen heavily in his absence. However, Angel decides to remain in Sandford. While the Sandford Police are reviewing the paperwork of the arrests, the elderly Tom Weaver, the last NWA member, bursts into the station wielding a blunderbuss. He shoots at Angel, but Danny jumps in front. In the resulting struggle, Weaver accidentally activates the sea mine, killing himself and destroying the station.
One year later, Angel has been promoted to Inspector and head of the Sandford police, and Danny, having survived, is Sergeant. After visiting Irene's grave, the two drive off to their next crime scene.
