Title: Drishyam 2
Rank: 91
Year: 2021
Rating: 8.4
Plot: On the night of 3 August 2013, a man named Jose George is on the run from the authorities for murdering his brother-in-law. Hiding behind an unfinished police station, he sees Georgekutty emerging from it. Afterwards, he attempts to apologize to his wife, but ends up being arrested by the police.

Six years later
Georgekutty, Rani, Anju, and Anu are now leading a more prosperous life. Georgekutty is the owner of a successful movie theatre and yearns to produce his own film despite Rani's objections. He is in frequent contact with Vinayachandran, a prominent screenwriter, to prepare the screenplay for his film. Anju, on the other hand, suffers from epilepsy and PTSD a result of her fears of being arrested for her role in Varun's murder. To Rani's chagrin, a number of locals have resorted to spreading rumors about Anju having "venereal connections" with Varun. Rani's only source of solace is her friendly neighbor Saritha – a government clerk, who is often abused by her alcoholic husband, Sabu – a real estate broker.

The Kerala Police has been humiliated in their inability to decipher the truth behind Varun's case. Meanwhile, Georgekutty has an encounter with Varun's father Prabhakar, who vainly begs Georgekutty to disclose the location of his son's remains. Meanwhile, Anu comes home for spring break and invites her friends despite Rani's objections. With Georgekutty remaining aloof to her concerns, Rani spends more time with Saritha, and on one occasion, inadvertently blurts on the truth about her family's complicity in Varun's death. Unbeknownst to her, Saritha and Sabu are actually married undercover cops, assigned by IGP Thomas Bastin, who is a close friend and colleague of Geetha.

Meanwhile, Jose is released from prison. After struggling to make amends with his now-estranged family, he seeks to find employment. While coming to know that Georgekutty’s case is still ongoing, he recollects Georgekutty's presence at the police station which was under construction. Realizing that Georgekutty was indeed complicit in the murder, he tips Thomas – who later summons Geetha and Prabhakar from the U.S.A. After the trio bribes him with a sum of Rs. 500,000, Jose reveals Georgekutty's presence at the then-unfinished police station on the night of August 3. Armed with Jose's revelations, the authorities raid the police station, eventually unearthing a human skeleton. Concurrently, Georgekutty, having noticed the events through his CCTV cameras (which he had set up around the police station), seemingly gives up. Armed with the discovery of the human remains, Thomas, Geetha, and Prabhakar summons Georgekutty's family for an informal interrogation. Georgekutty, Rani, Anu and Anju manage to maintain their alibi. However, Geetha reveals a voice-recording of Rani's earlier confession to Saritha; that she had bugged the family residence earlier. Having exposed the family, Geetha turns to question Anju, resulting in the latter having another epileptic fit. Distraught, Georgekutty falsely confesses to Thomas that he was the culprit in Varun's murder. With the police satisfied, the family is released and Georgekutty ends up being arrested, although Geetha isn't satisfied as she demands that Georgekutty's family be punished as well.

Later, Georgekutty is placed on trial for Varun's murder. Concurrently, Vinayachandaran, having learned about Georgekutty's arrest, pays a visit to Thomas, Geetha and Prabhakar. He reveals that during his business collusions with Georgekutty, the latter had fabricated a script for a future crime-thriller, loosely based on Varun's murder. He further reveals that Georgekutty had published a novel, titled Drishyam, based on the film script (although it was published under Vinayachandran's name, for copyright protection). The quartet is then informed that Georgekutty had officially pleaded not guilty, with his legal defence submitting that he had been framed by the authorities, which had "misused" Drishyam's plot as a means to incriminate him. Realizing that Georgekutty's earlier confession matches with Drishyam's plot, Thomas deduces that Georgekutty had created the novel and the confession, as a part of a scheme to escape legal punishment. Even more surprising, the DNA tests conducted on the skeleton revealed that it doesn't match Varun's DNA. Vinayachandran divulges that Georgekutty had fabricated an alternate climax for his film – in which the hero (Georgekutty), in his bid to evade legal punishment, would procure the remains of another person of same age and sex, who had died owing to similar injuries like that of the villain by befriending the gravedigger of the cemetery where that said body had been interred. The hero would keep the skeletal remains which he got from the cemetery with him for nearly three years, and befriend a security guard at the district medical college morgue under the pretext of offering him a chance in the film industry. On the night the remains excavated from the police station arrive at the morgue, after plying the security guard with drinks, the hero would switch the body in the morgue, just before the day the DNA analysis is to be performed.

With no physical evidence to prove his culpability, Georgekutty is released on personal bail. Georgekutty's lawyer Renuka requests the Judge to kindly direct the state police not to proceed against Georgekutty and his family for the time being as they are approaching the High Court of Kerala to stop all the proceedings against them in connection with the "so-called" crime. The Judge calls Thomas to his chambers and tells him that both Georgekutty's and Prabhakar's families truly deserve justice but the legal system is unable to provide it to them. The Judge also orders Thomas to end all investigations of Varun’s case, as unsolved cases are not new to the system. Outside the courthouse, Vinayachandran discloses to Geetha and Prabhakar that Georgekutty's alternate climax had a tail end as well: the hero would transfer the villain's ashes to his bereaved parents. Simultaneously, Georgekutty has Varun's cremated skeletal remains anonymously handed over to Geetha and Prabhakar.

As Prabhakar immerses Varun's ashes into the river, Thomas convinces Geetha to let go of her enmity with Georgekutty, saying that they will never succeed in punishing him since he is keen on his intent to protect his family. Thomas also states that Georgekutty's life is his punishment, as the latter must constantly endeavor in his efforts to protect his family from the ever-watchful eye of the authorities. Meanwhile, Georgekutty, who was watching the trio from afar, leaves solemnly.
