Title: 777 Charlie
Rank: 16
Year: 2022
Rating: 8.8
Plot: A Labrador puppy escapes from the house of a breeder where many dogs have been caged and tortured. The pup continues its journey and finally reaches the Chinmaya colony, Mysore where Dharma resides. Dharma is a loner in a colony, who does not socialize with anyone and is feared among the colony people. His life consists of mainly working at the factory, fights, booze, smoke and watching Charlie Chaplin shows on TV. He is an orphan, whose parents and sister died in a car crash caused by a dog and thereby leads a monotonous life. A musical fest at his colony makes the puppy scared and Dharma is enraged as his sleep is disturbed where he destroys the band instruments. The puppy views Dharma as her saviour and secretly follows him. 
The Labrador takes shelter in the dustbin outside his house and consumes the leftover idli thrown by Dharma without his knowledge. It tries to gain attention of Dharma, but in vain. One day, the dog follows him and gets into a road accident. Feeling pity for the dog after watching Charlie Chaplin's bond with a dog, Dharma takes it to the hospital where he is advised by Dr. Ashwin Kumar to let the dog stay with him, till an adopter comes forward and advises obtaining a dog license. Though reluctant as the colony members do not allow dogs, Dharma agrees and takes care of the dog where the bonding between him and the dog grows to an extent where Dharma becomes a better person and names the dog Charlie after Charlie Chaplin and takes care of the dog with a child in the colony named Adrika aka Adi. 
One day, Charlie loses consciousness where Dharma learns that Charlie is suffering from cancer (hemangiosarcoma of spleen) and this genetic defect has happened due to the breeder's unwanted breeding techniques and constant torture as Charlie is a female dog. Distraught, Dharma decides to fulfill Charlie's wishes where he learns that Charlie likes to play in snow as whenever snow appears on TV, she gets excited. He leaves with Charlie for Himachal Pradesh. An animal welfare activist Devika thinks that Dharma tortures charlie and decides to follow him to gather proofs to confront him and charge him. En route, Dharma learns about Charlie's breeder from the vet doctor and receives a video of Charlie being tortured where he learns that Charlie's name was actually Keaton. Dharma confirms this by addressing Charlie as Keaton thereby Charlie responding to the name and shown to be in fear. He reaches the breeder's house and thrashes him. 
The breeder is later caught by the police. The rest of the dogs get rescued by the animal welfare team. Devika learns about this incident through her team and develops a soft corner for Dharma and tells him she is ready for any help he requires but she has to leave due to scheduled commitments at her job. Through Devika, Dharma meets Karshan Roy, who promises to publish his story in a magazine. Dharma and Charlie leave for Punjab where they meet a dog lover named Vamshinathan, who is a Tamilian and his dog Blacky, where Dharma and Charlie spent few days with Vamshi. Vamshi provides a dog competition pass to Dharma, but they become contestants where Charlie does a long jump, supported by Dharma winning the hearts of all the audiences and the competition as well. Without money and food, Dharma sells his bike and walks to continue their journey but Charlie's condition worsens. 
Dharma takes him to a monastery and learns that Charlie was pregnant with Blacky's child, but the puppies could not survive. The duo continue their journey in the bus but the bus is stopped by the army, and they reveal that a landslide occurred. After requests from Dharma, an officer agrees to take Charlie to Kashmir. Dharma and Charlie sneak out and play in snow and return back to the camp. The following day, Charlie goes missing and Dharma leaves in search of Charlie. After a long search, he finds her at a temple waiting for him, who sits in his lap, then thanks him with her gesture and dies in Dharma's arms. Dharma is distraught but finds a puppy inside the temple and realises that Charlie gifted the puppy to him as she knows that Dharma cannot survive without her. 
A few months later, Dharma along with Devika, Adrika and the colony people inaugurate an animal rescue and shelter in the memory of Charlie, where Dharma sits next to Charlie's memorial and goes through the article published about the journey of Charlie and Dharma. Charlie's puppy, which is also named Charlie, is shown to be more mischievous than its mother.
