Title: The Dirty Dozen
Rank: 821
Year: 1967
Rating: 7.7
Plot: In March 1944, OSS officer Major John Reisman is ordered by the commander of ADSEC in Britain, Major General Sam Worden, to undertake "Project Amnesty", a top secret mission to train some of the U.S. Army's worst convicts into highly-skilled commandos to eliminate Wehrmacht officers at a château near Rennes, disrupting the German chain of command in northern France ahead of D-Day. If any of the convicts survive, they will be pardoned.
Reisman meets the twelve convicts at a military prison operated by the Military Police Corps. Five are condemned to death while the others face lengthy sentences including hard labor. Reisman quickly establishes his authority. Overseen by MPs led by Sergeant Bowren, the convicts gradually learn to operate together when they are forced to build their own training camp. However, when an act of insubordination is instigated by convict Franko, all shaving and wash kits are withheld as punishment, which leads to their nickname, the "Dirty Dozen". During their training, the convicts are psychoanalyzed by Captain Kinder, who warns Reisman that they would all likely kill him if given the chance, and that Maggott, a psychopathic rapist and murderer, is by far the most dangerous.
With their commando training almost complete, the Dirty Dozen are sent for parachute training at a facility commanded by Reisman's nemesis, Colonel Everett Dasher Breed of the 101st Airborne Division. When Breed makes several attempts to discover Reisman's mission, including infiltration of the Dirty Dozen's camp, Reisman kicks Breed and his men out of the camp. Later, Breed's testimony combined with Reisman rewarding the Dirty Dozen with prostitutes at the end of their training, prompts the ADSEC staff to consider terminating the project and sending the men back for execution of sentence. Reisman defends the convicts' training and agrees to have them compete against Breed's men in war games to test their mettle. To the surprise of Colonel Breed, the Dirty Dozen successfully capture his headquarters and General Worden allows Reisman to resume his mission.
Upon parachuting into northern France, one of the prisoners, Jiminez, breaks his neck during the jump. With a man down, the mission proceeds with German-speaking convict Wladislaw and Reisman infiltrating the chateau disguised as German officers. However, all surprise is lost when Maggott breaks cover before he is killed. The sound of gunfire makes the Wehrmacht officers and their companions retreat to a locked underground bomb shelter, but the unit pours gasoline and throws grenades into the shelter through ventilation shafts, killing the officers.
After a firefight, only Reisman, Bowren, and Wladislaw escape alive. Back in England, a voiceover from Armbruster confirms that General Worden exonerated the sole surviving member of the Dirty Dozen and communicated to the next of kin of the rest that "they lost their lives in the line of duty".
