Title: Monsters, Inc.
Rank: 244
Year: 2001
Rating: 8.1
Plot: In a world inhabited by monsters, the city of Monstropolis harnesses the screams of human children for energy. At the Monsters, Incorporated factory, skilled monsters employed as "scarers" venture into the human world to scare children and harvest their screams, through doors that activate portals to children's bedroom closets. The work is considered dangerous, as human children are believed to be toxic and capable of killing a monster through physical contact. Energy production is declining because children are becoming less afraid, and the company's CEO, Henry J. Waternoose III, is determined to prevent the company's collapse.
One evening after work, James P. "Sulley" Sullivan, a top-ranking scarer, discovers that an active door has been left in the station of Randall Boggs, his rival. He inspects the door and accidentally lets a young human girl into the factory. Frightened, Sulley unsuccessfully attempts to return the girl, who escapes into Monstropolis, interrupting Mike Wazowski, Sulley's best friend and assistant, on a date with Celia, his girlfriend and the receptionist of Monsters Inc., at a sushi restaurant. Chaos erupts when other monsters see the girl, but Sulley and Mike escape with her before the Child Detection Agency (CDA) arrives and quarantines the restaurant. Forced to keep the girl hidden in their apartment for the night, Sulley soon realizes that the girl is not toxic and her laughter is very powerful.
The next day, Sulley and Mike take the girl to the factory disguised as a monster. While Mike seeks out her door, Sulley grows attached to her and nicknames her "Boo". Randall, waiting in ambush for the girl, captures Mike by accident and reveals his plan to kidnap children and harvest their screams using his new invention, the scream extractor. Sulley rescues Mike and they head to the training room to report Randall to Mr. Waternoose. There, he forces Sulley to give a scare demonstration, which frightens Boo and makes Sulley realize how wrong scaring children is. Boo reveals herself and Mike tells Waternoose about Randall's plan. However, he reveals he is on Randall's side, kidnaps Boo and uses a door to exile Mike and Sulley to the Himalayas. Sulley heads to a nearby village to get back to the factory, but Mike initially refuses to go with him.
Sulley saves Boo from the scream extractor, and Randall proceeds to attack him. Mike returns to reconcile with Sulley and exposes Randall, who pursues them and Boo into the enormous door storage vault; Randall manages to catch up, but is defeated by Boo. The trio then hurl Randall through a door to the Everglades, which they then destroy, leaving Randall permanently trapped in the human world. When Mike and Sulley locate Boo's door, Waternoose, accompanied by the CDA, brings it down to the scare floor to arrest Mike and Sulley. Mike distracts the CDA while Sulley and Boo escape, leading Waternoose into the training room, where he reveals his conspiracy to kidnap as many children as necessary to keep the company afloat. Mike records the conversation and reveals it to the CDA, and Waternoose is arrested. Roz, Mike's secretary, who reveals herself as the CDA's undercover director, orders Sulley to send Boo home, and after Sulley sadly says goodbye to Boo, the door is shredded.
Afterwards, Sulley retools the company's power generation method to harvest children's laughter instead of screams, as laughter is ten times more powerful. With the energy crisis solved, the factory is now focused on making children laugh to collect energy; Mike becomes the company's top comedian, and Sulley is named the new CEO. Mike surprises Sulley by revealing he rebuilt Boo's shredded door. Sulley enters the door and smiles as Boo says "Kitty!"
