Title: Scarface
Rank: 101
Year: 1983
Rating: 8.3
Plot: In 1980, Cuban refugee and ex-convict Tony Montana arrives in Miami as part of the Mariel boatlift, where he is sent to a refugee camp with his best friend Manny Ray and their companions Angel and Chi-Chi. The four are released and given green cards in exchange for murdering a former Cuban general at the request of Miami drug lord Frank Lopez. They find work as dishwashers at a restaurant, but are dissatisfied. Tony proclaims that he is meant for bigger things. Frank's right-hand man Omar Suarez sends the four to purchase cocaine from Colombian dealers. Tony and Angel are captured at gunpoint, and Tony is forced to watch Angel being dismembered with a chainsaw before Manny and Chi-Chi rescue him. The three kill the Colombians and personally deliver the recovered drugs and money to Frank, suspecting that Omar set them up.
During their meeting, Tony becomes attracted to Frank's trophy wife, Elvira. Tony and Manny begin working for Frank. Later, Tony visits his mother and younger sister Gina, the latter of whom he is overprotective. Disgusted by his life of crime, Tony's mother throws him out. Manny is attracted to Gina, but Tony tells him to stay away from her. Frank sends Tony and Omar to Cochabamba, Bolivia, to meet with cocaine kingpin Alejandro Sosa. During the meeting, Omar is unhappy when Tony negotiates a large deal without Frank's approval. Sosa later has his men hang Omar from a helicopter, telling Tony that he was a police informant and that Frank has poor judgment for having trusted him. Tony vouches for Frank's organization; Sosa takes a liking to Tony and agrees to the deal, but warns Tony to never double cross him.
Seeing that Frank is infuriated by Omar's death and the size of the deal with Sosa, Tony sets up an independent cocaine operation. Mel Bernstein, a corrupt police detective on Frank's payroll, accosts Tony at a nightclub and attempts to extort money from him in return for police protection. Tony spots Gina fraternizing with a man and confronts them both when he sees him grope her. Hitmen then attempt to kill Tony, who escapes with a bullet wound. He confronts Frank and Bernstein, certain that they orchestrated the attack; Frank confesses his involvement at gunpoint and begs for his life, but Tony has Manny shoot him dead before proceeding to kill Bernstein. Tony marries Elvira and becomes the distributor of Sosa's product using his profits to build a multi-million-dollar business empire and construct a large, heavily-guarded estate.
In 1983, a money laundering sting operation by federal agents results in Tony being charged with tax evasion and facing a prison sentence. Sosa offers to use his government connections to keep Tony out of prison, but only if Tony helps kill an activist intending to expose Sosa's drug operations. During dinner at an upscale restaurant, Tony accuses Manny of causing his arrest and Elvira of being an infertile junkie, prompting Elvira to leave him. Tony and Sosa's henchman "Shadow" travel to New York City to carry out the assassination. Shadow plants a radio-controlled bomb under the man's car, but Tony tries to call off the hit upon seeing him accompanied by his wife and children. When Shadow refuses to back down, Tony kills him before he can detonate the bomb. Tony returns to Miami, where an enraged Sosa calls him to promise retribution for allowing the activist to deliver the exposé. 
At his mother's behest, Tony, who is high on cocaine, tracks down Gina and finds her with Manny. In a fit of rage, Tony shoots Manny dead only to learn that Gina had just married him. A distraught Tony returns to his estate with Gina and begins a massive cocaine binge in his office. Sosa's men begin to invade the grounds and kill Tony's guards as Gina enters the office with a Chief's Special revolver, accusing him of wanting her for himself. She shoots and wounds him, but is killed by one of Sosa's men whom Tony kills in return. Tony deploys an M16 rifle with an under-mounted M203 grenade launcher against the invaders, killing many of them but suffering multiple gunshot wounds. He taunts his attackers until an assassin climbs up to the office and shoots him in the back with a double-barreled shotgun. Tony's body falls off the balcony into a pool, where it floats near the base of a globe bearing the ironic motto "The World Is Yours".
