Title: Memories of Murder
Rank: 233
Year: 2003
Rating: 8.1
Plot: In October 1986, two women are found raped and murdered on the outskirts of a small town. Local detective Park Doo-man, not having dealt with such a serious case before, is overwhelmed—evidence is improperly collected, the police's investigative methods are suspicious, and their forensic technology is near non-existent. Park claims he has a way of determining suspects by eye contact. He questions a scarred mentally handicapped boy, Baek Kwang-ho, because he used to follow one of the victims around town. Park's partner Cho beats confessions out of Baek.
Seo Tae-yoon, a detective from Seoul with more scientific training in crime scene analysis, volunteers to assist them. However his and Park's methods clash. Seo determines Baek is too weak and scarred to commit such an elaborate crime and, after closely studying the crime reports, deduces that the killer strikes only on rainy nights and targets women wearing red. Inspector Kwon, the police force's diligent but unrecognized female officer, also has determined that the same obscure song is requested on the local radio station on the night of each crime. Despite a stakeout, the killer eludes them on the next rainy night and kills a woman near a gypsum mine. The next night, Park, Cho and Seo stake out the crime scene and interrupt a man masturbating there. After a chase, they apprehend him, thinking he is the killer. But despite their beating him, his improvised "confession" never fits the details of the crime. He does mention a mysterious person who rises out of the outhouses at a local school; this fits with a story that two local schoolgirls told Seo on the night of the most recent murder.
Seo uses the story to find the killer's only surviving victim. She tells him details that exclude the man arrested at the crime scene. Park and Seo fight when the man is released, but when the killer strikes again, they agree to work together. Their investigation leads them to Hyeon-gyu, a clerk at the gypsum factory. Seo notes that Hyeon-gyu's hands are soft like the survivor had described, but they have no other evidence to go on. Listening to Baek's "confession" again, they realize that he had seen one of the murders as it occurred. They go to the restaurant run by Baek's father, where they encounter a drunken Cho, who has been suspended from the police force for beating Hyeon-gyu. When other patrons mock the police for not solving the crime, Cho instigates a brawl. Baek stabs him in the leg with a rusty nail then runs off. Park and Seo chase him, but before they can learn what he knows, the frightened Baek stumbles in front of a passing train and is killed. 
Park feels guilty when Cho's leg develops tetanus and will have to be amputated. The coroner discovers semen in the latest victim, and Seo arranges for the sample to be sent to the U.S. for DNA testing that will confirm if Hyeon-gyu is the killer. On the next rainy night, Seo loses track of Hyeon-gyu while observing him and one of the schoolgirls Seo had befriended is the next victim. Enraged, Seo attacks Hyeon-gyu the next day. Park interrupts him with the results of the DNA test. They are inconclusive--Hyeong-gyu is neither confirmed nor excluded as a suspect. Seo tries to shoot Hyeon-gyu anyway but Park stops him and Hyeon-gyu is allowed to leave. 
In 2003, the crimes remained unsolved and Park is now a father and businessman. He passes by the first crime scene and stops to view the spot where the victim was found. A young girl tells him about a man she had seen there before who said he was reminiscing about something he had done there a long time ago. Park asks the girl what the man looks like, and she tells him that he looks very ordinary. Shaken, Park stares into the camera.
