Title: Aftersun
Rank: 762
Year: 2022
Rating: 7.7
Plot: Eleven-year-old Sophie from Edinburgh takes a summer holiday to Turkey with her loving 30-year-old father Calum, who moved to London after having amicably separated from Sophie's mother. Sophie records the holiday on a MiniDV camera, the footage of which is interspersed throughout the film. Over the course of the holiday, Sophie befriends and observes older British teenagers at the Turkish resort, who engage in and discuss sexual and romantic activity. She also meets with and plays arcade games with a boy of her age named Michael. Calum is dealing with occupational and financial struggles and exhibits signs of depression and detachment, which he tries to hide from his daughter, keeping up a façade of contentment during the holiday. During his time alone on the holiday, he is seen engaging in Tai chi patterns and reading self-help books; he is also shown smoking, a fact he hides from Sophie.
Despite the young Sophie's observant nature, she is oblivious to the signs of her father's depression. One day, they go scuba diving and she loses her expensive scuba mask to the sea. Calum feigns nonchalance, but Sophie can sense that her father is upset by her mistake and expresses that she understood the mask was expensive and comforts her father. Calum then confesses to the diving instructor next to them that he's surprised that he made it to the age of 30, and is not expecting to make it to 40. Soon after, Calum and Sophie go to a rug merchant and she observes him grapple with the cost of purchasing one he likes. Calum initially declines purchasing the rug while Sophie is with him. He later returns without Sophie and buys it despite the high cost. 
The following night, they attend a karaoke night and Sophie signs herself and Calum up for a song. Calum curtly refuses to sing with Sophie despite her insistence. Sophie goes on stage and sings "Losing My Religion" alone as Calum watches on. Upset by being left alone by him, Sophie refuses to join Calum in returning to their hotel room and hangs out with the teenagers. She later reunites with Michael, culminating in them sharing a kiss beside a pool. Calum goes to the beach and submerges himself in the beach waters in the darkness of night. Later, Sophie returns to the hotel room where she finds Calum asleep and nude; she gently covers him with a sheet.
The next day, the two reconcile while travelling to the mud baths. Sophie surprises him by having other tourists sing "For He's a Jolly Good Fellow" for his 31st birthday, while Calum stoically watches on. A nude Calum (from the previous night) is then shown sobbing in the hotel room in private, with letters addressed to Sophie on the floor. That night, Calum and Sophie share a dance together to "Under Pressure" in a loving embrace on the last night of their holiday.
Later, Calum and Sophie are at the airport, signalling the end of their holiday. Waving goodbye, Calum sends Sophie off on her flight back home to her mother.
Interspersed throughout the film are rave sequences set in a dark strobe-lit room where a disoriented Calum is seen dancing. An adult Sophie witnesses him from afar dancing frantically. In these sequences, she attempts to get closer to him but fails multiple times. The two are finally able to embrace, hands wrapped around each other, but Calum ultimately falls from the adult Sophie's embrace.
The adult Sophie seen in the rave sequences is the same age as her father during their holiday, with a wife and a small child of her own. Calum is not present in Sophie's life, though the rug he purchased is on display in her apartment. She is shown to be reflecting on the trip to Turkey with her father, by prying through the video camera footage and her own memories, seeking to understand what happened to her father.
The film then concludes with Calum on the day Sophie left him at the airport, packing away the camera, walking down the airport hallway, and opening the doors to the room of the rave.
