Title: Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse
Rank: 17
Year: 2023
Rating: 8.7
Plot: On Earth-65, police captain George Stacy is unaware that his daughter Gwen Stacy is Spider-Woman. Years prior, Gwen accidentally caused the death of her best friend Peter Parker while he was rampaging as the Lizard, and police have been hunting her ever since. One night, Gwen encounters a version of the Vulture from an Italian Renaissance-themed alternate universe. Miguel O'Hara and Jess Drew arrive using portal-generating watches and help Gwen neutralize the Vulture. George corners Gwen, who then reveals her identity to him; distraught, he attempts to arrest her. Miguel reluctantly grants Gwen membership into the Spider-Society, allowing her to escape with him and Jess.
In Brooklyn on Earth-1610, sixteen months after the Alchemax collider's destruction, Miles Morales encounters the Spot, an Alchemax scientist whose body was infused with portals during the collider explosion. The Spot blames Miles for causing his condition and reveals that, while testing the collider, he had transported a spider from another dimension, Earth-42, which bit Miles and turned him into Spider-Man. The Spot then accidentally transports himself into a void, where he travels to other universes containing Alchemax colliders to empower himself further.
Gwen travels to Earth-1610 and reconnects with Miles while secretly tracking the Spot. Miles secretly follows her through a portal to Earth-50101, and they team up with local Spider-Man Pavitr Prabhakar, and later Hobie Brown, against the Spot, who absorbs the power of that world's collider. The Spot and Miles share a vision of the Spot's future attacks that include the deaths of Police Inspector Singh (the father of Pavitr's girlfriend) and Miles' father Jeff. As the collider collapses, Miles saves Singh, but Earth-50101 begins falling apart from its disrupted "canon event" before members of the Spider-Society arrive to contain the damage. Miles, Gwen, and Hobie are sent to the Society's headquarters on Earth-928, where hundreds of Spider-People reside in a massive complex.
Miles, Gwen, and Hobie meet with Miguel and reunite with Peter B. Parker and his infant daughter Mayday. Miguel explains to Miles that each of the Spider-People's stories throughout the multiverse entails "canon events", such as the death of a police captain close to Spider-Man, the death of an uncle figure to Spider-Man, and other string of events that define a Spider-Man; and straying from these events threatens reality and may cause that universe to collapse, and if that universe collapses, then the entire multiverse will eventually collapse as well. Miguel reveals he witnessed the collapse of another universe firsthand when attempting to replace a deceased version of himself from that universe.
Miles realizes that the Spot murdering Jeff, who is set to be promoted to police captain in two days, is a canon event. Miguel imprisons Miles to prevent him from saving Jeff, but Hobie helps Miles break loose before quitting the Spider-Society. As Miles flees through the complex, Miguel orders the Spider-Society to capture him. Miguel corners Miles and tells him that he is the original anomaly; the spider that bit him came from Earth-42, resulting in Earth-42 having no Spider-Man, and that if the spider had not bitten Miles, Earth 1610’s Peter Parker would have stopped the collider and survived, and the Spot would never have existed.
Miles overpowers Miguel and flees to what he believes to be his home dimension. Considering Gwen a liability, a furious Miguel ejects her from the Society and forcibly sends her back to Earth-65. Once there, Gwen learns that George has resigned from his job as police captain, proving that it is possible for canon events to be safely averted. The two reconcile and George gives her a portal watch left by Hobie.
To his shock, Miles realizes that he is on Earth-42, the home of the spider that bit him, rather than his own dimension. In this world, his uncle Aaron Davis is alive while his father Jeff is dead, and, because Spider-Man does not exist, New York City is riddled with unchecked crime. As the Spider-Society searches for Miles, Gwen travels to Earth-1610 and speaks with Miles' parents, promising to find him and bring him home. Aaron restrains Miles, and it is revealed Earth-42's Miles has become the Prowler.
As the Spot begins his multiversal attack, Gwen assembles a team to find Miles, consisting of Peter B., Mayday, Pavitr, Hobie, Margo Kess, Spider-Man Noir, Peni Parker, and Spider-Ham, while Miles prepares to escape.
