Title: The Princess Bride
Rank: 348
Year: 1987
Rating: 8
Plot: A grandfather reads a novel to his sick grandson, who initially dismisses the story. 
The tale is about Buttercup, a young woman living on a farm in the fictional kingdom of Florin. Whenever she tells farmhand Westley to do something, he always complies, saying, "As you wish." The two fall in love, and Westley leaves to seek his fortune overseas so they can marry. When his ship is attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts, Westley is presumed dead.
Five years later, Buttercup is unwillingly betrothed to Florin's Prince Humperdinck. Before the wedding, she is kidnapped by three outlaws: a small Sicilian man named Vizzini, a giant from Greenland named Fezzik, and a Spanish fencing master named Inigo Montoya, who seeks revenge against a six-fingered man who murdered his father. A masked man in black pursues them, as do Prince Humperdinck and his soldiers.
The man in black confronts the outlaws atop the Cliffs of Insanity. He defeats Inigo in a fencing duel and knocks him out, chokes Fezzik into unconsciousness, and tricks Vizzini into drinking a deadly poison. He forcibly flees with Buttercup. Buttercup correctly guesses he is the Dread Pirate Roberts, berates him for killing Westley, and shoves him down a hill. While tumbling down, he shouts, "As you wish!" Upon realizing he is Westley, Buttercup throws herself down after him and they are reunited.
While making their way through the dangerous Fire Swamp to avoid Humperdinck, Westley explains how "Dread Pirate Roberts" is an inherited title that he assumed when the previous Roberts wished to retire. Having found Buttercup, Westley intends to pass the title to another. Humperdinck captures them after they emerge from the Fire Swamp. Buttercup agrees to return with Humperdinck after he promises to release Westley. Humperdinck secretly orders his sadistic vizier, Count Rugen, to take Westley to the Pit of Despair for torture on a machine Rugen invented. Before being knocked out, Westley spots six fingers on Rugen's right hand.
When Buttercup threatens suicide if the wedding happens, Humperdinck falsely promises to find Westley. In truth, he intends to start a war with the country of Guilder by killing Buttercup and framing Guilder for the murder. He had secretly hired Vizzini to do this before Westley interfered. Meanwhile, Fezzik becomes part of the brute squad ordered to clear the thieves' forest before the wedding. He finds a drunk Inigo living in the forest, whom he sobers up and tells about Rugen. Inigo realizes that he and Fezzik need Westley's help to storm the castle.
Buttercup discovers that Humperdinck never searched for Westley and calls him a coward. Enraged, Humperdinck imprisons Buttercup and puts the torture machine on its highest setting, which appears to kill Westley. Inigo and Fezzik follow Westley's screams through the forest, find his body and bring him to Miracle Max, a folk healer. Max revives the "mostly dead" Westley, though he is severely weakened.
As Westley, Inigo, and Fezzik storm the castle, Humperdinck panics and orders the in-progress wedding to be shortened. Inigo finds and chases Rugen before Rugen throws a knife into Inigo's abdomen. Rugen realizes who Inigo is and taunts him about his father. Inigo overcomes the pain and kills Rugen. Westley locates Buttercup, who is about to commit suicide as she believes she is married to Humperdinck. Westley assures her the marriage is invalid because she never completed her wedding vows. Humperdinck finds them, and approaches Westley to kill him. Westley wills himself to stand and intimidates Humperdinck into surrendering just before Inigo finds them. They hear Fezzik's voice outside and discover he has procured four white horses for their escape. They leave Humperdinck tied to a chair and jump to safety through the window. Having killed Rugen, Inigo is unsure what to do with his life, so Westley offers him the "Dread Pirate Roberts" title. As dawn arises, Westley and Buttercup share a passionate kiss.
Back in his bedroom, the boy asks his grandfather to read him the story again the next day, to which his grandfather replies, "As you wish."
