Title: Moneyball
Rank: 946
Year: 2011
Rating: 7.6
Plot: Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, is devastated by the team's loss to the New York Yankees in the 2001 American League Division Series. With the impending departure of star players Johnny Damon, Jason Giambi, and Jason Isringhausen to free agency, Beane needs to assemble a competitive team for 2002 with Oakland's limited budget of 41 million dollars.During a scouting visit to the Cleveland Indians, Beane meets Peter Brand, a young Yale economics graduate with radical ideas about evaluating players. Beane asks whether Brand would have drafted him out of high school; though scouts considered Beane promising, his career in the major leagues was disappointing. Brand says he would not have drafted him until the ninth round and intuits that Beane would've thereby turned down the Mets' offer and gone to Stanford on a full sports scholarship instead. Impressed, Beane hires him.
Using Brand's sabermetric method, Beane signs undervalued players such as Chad Bradford, Jeremy Giambi, and Scott Hatteberg, and also trades for David Justice. The Athletics' scouts are hostile toward the strategy, and Beane fires the head scout, Grady Fuson, after a heated confrontation. Beane also faces opposition from Art Howe, the Athletics' manager. Howe disregards Beane's and Brand's strategy and uses a more traditional lineup.
Early in the season, the Athletics are already 10 games behind first, leading critics to dismiss the new method as a failure. Brand argues that their sample size is too small to conclude that the method does not work, and Beane convinces the team owner, Stephen Schott, to stay the course. To get help on defense, Beane trades Giambi to the Phillies for John Mabry and the only traditional first baseman, Carlos Peña, to the Tigers, leaving Howe no choice but to use the team that Beane and Brand have designed. Three weeks later, the Athletics are only four games behind first.
Before the trade deadline, Beane acquires the relief pitcher Ricardo Rincón from the Indians, and on August 13, the Athletics start a winning streak. Beane, superstitiously, refuses to watch games in progress, but when the Athletics tie the American League record of 19 consecutive wins, his daughter persuades him to attend the next game against the Kansas City Royals. Oakland is leading 11–0 when Beane arrives in the fourth inning, only to watch the Royals even the score by the top of the ninth. Thanks to a walk-off home run by Hatteberg, the Athletics achieve a then record-breaking 20th consecutive win. Beane tells Brand he will not be satisfied until they have changed baseball by winning the World Series.
The Athletics win the American League West but lose to the Minnesota Twins in the American League Division Series, with an unseen baseball analyst explaining that some other tangibles of a player, such as drive and clutch performance, cannot be measured. The owner of the Boston Red Sox, John W. Henry, realizes that sabermetrics is the future of baseball. He makes Beane an offer to become the Red Sox general manager for a $12.5 million salary, which would make him the highest-paid general manager in sports history. In Oakland, Beane discloses the offer to Brand and says that their strategy failed. Brand shows a video of a heavyset batter, Jeremy Brown, who hits a home run but does not realize it; Beane understands what Brand is trying to say and thanks him. In his car, an emotional Beane listens to a cover of "The Show" recorded by his daughter in which she tells him to "just enjoy the show.”
In an epilogue, Beane turns down Henry's offer, but the Red Sox still end up winning the World Series two years later using Beane and Brand's model.
