Title: Ben-Hur
Rank: 266
Year: 1959
Rating: 8.1
Plot: A baby is born in Bethlehem among the shepherds and visited by Magi in a cave.
In A.D. 26 Jerusalem, Judah Ben-Hur, a wealthy Jewish prince and merchant, lives with his mother, Miriam, and younger sister, Tirzah. The family's steward, Simonides, has a daughter named Esther. Judah grants Simonides' request for Esther to marry a freeman and gives Esther her freedom as a wedding gift. Apart since childhood, Judah and Esther quickly fall in love. 
Judah's Roman boyhood friend, Messala, returns to Jerusalem as commander of the Fortress Antonia. He fully embraces Rome's glory and imperial power while Judah remains devoted to his faith and the Jewish people's freedom. When Messala demands that Judah surrender potential rebels to Roman authorities, Judah refuses. He tells his family they will never see Messala again.
The new Judean governor and his procession enter the city. As Judah and Tirzah watch from the upper terrace, loose roof tiles fall, spooking the governor's horse and throwing him off. Messala realizes it was accidental but condemns Judah to the galleys and imprisons Miriam and Tirzah. When Simonides attempts to intervene, Messala arrests him as well. Judah vows revenge upon Messala. As he and other slaves are marched to the galleys, they stop in Nazareth to water the Romans' horses. Judah begs for water, but the Roman commander refuses. Judah collapses but is revived when a local man gives him a drink.
After three years as a galley slave, Judah is assigned to Roman Consul Quintus Arrius' flagship. Arrius notices Judah's determination and self-discipline and offers to train him as a gladiator or charioteer, which Judah refuses. When the Roman fleet is attacked by Macedonian pirates, Arrius orders Judah to be unchained. The ship's hull is rammed, flooding the galley. Judah frees the other rowers, then rescues Arrius, who was thrown overboard. Clinging to wreckage and believing his fleet lost, Arrius attempts suicide, but Judah stops him. After being rescued, Arrius learns the battle was won. He later petitions Emperor Tiberius to free Judah, and adopts him as his son. During his time in Rome, Judah becomes a champion charioteer. 
While returning to Judea, Judah meets Balthasar and Arab Sheik Ilderim. Seeing Judah's prowess as a charioteer, the sheik asks him to drive his four horses in a race before the new Judean governor, Pontius Pilate. Judah declines, despite knowing that Messala is competing. Balthasar tells Judah about a prophet he seeks who preaches love and forgiveness, and urges Judah to cast off his consuming hate and vengeance.
In Jerusalem, Judah returns to his abandoned house and finds Esther, who never married, living with her debilitated father and also Malluch, a mute former prisoner. Messala imprisoned and tortured Simonides, who has protected Judah's fortune nonetheless. Presenting himself as Quintus Arrius' son, Judah confronts Messala and demands to know Miriam and Tirzah's fates. Messala orders their release from prison. Both have contracted leprosy and are secretly expelled from the city. Before traveling to the Valley of the Lepers, the women find Esther and beg her to conceal their condition from Judah. To stop him searching, Esther tells Judah they are dead. 
Seeking revenge, Judah agrees to drive Sheik Ilderim's horses against Messala in the chariot race. The sheik goads Messala into making an enormous wager on himself before revealing Judah is his driver. During the race, Messala drives a chariot with steel blades on its sides to disable competitors. He attempts to destroy Judah's chariot, but wrecks his own instead. Dragged behind his horses, he is trampled by another chariot, while Judah wins the race. Before dying, Messala tells Judah his mother and sister are alive in the Valley of the Lepers.
Judah goes to the leper colony and encounters Esther and Malluch bringing supplies to Miriam and Tirzah. Esther persuades him to conceal himself as his family would wish. Judah and Esther then follow a crowd to hear what is possibly Jesus Christ's sermon on the mount. 
Judah meets with Pontius Pilate, who fears Judah's victory will stoke rebellion against Roman rule. Judah rejects his patrimony and Roman citizenship. Returning to the leper colony, he reveals himself to Miriam who says that Tirzah is dying. Judah and Esther take his family to hear Christ, but the trial of Jesus has begun. While lugging his cross through the streets, Jesus collapses. Judah recognizes him as the man who gave him water earlier. Judah gives him water but a Roman soldier intervenes. As Judah witnesses Jesus' crucifixion, Miriam and Tirzah, sheltered in a cave with Esther during a violent storm, are miraculously cured.
Judah, freed of hate, returns to his house and finds them. Embracing, the four rejoice at the miracle.
