Title: Little Miss Sunshine
Rank: 641
Year: 2006
Rating: 7.8
Plot: Sheryl Hoover is an overworked mother of two living in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Her gay brother, Frank, an unemployed scholar of Proust, is temporarily living with the family after having attempted suicide. Sheryl's husband Richard is striving to build a career as a motivational speaker and life coach. Dwayne, Sheryl's Nietzsche-reading teenage son from a previous marriage, has taken a vow of silence until he can accomplish his dream of becoming a fighter pilot. Richard's foul-mouthed father, Edwin, lives with the family after being evicted from a retirement home for snorting heroin. Olive, the daughter of Richard and Sheryl and the youngest of the Hoover family, is an aspiring beauty queen who is coached by Edwin.
Olive learns she has qualified for the "Little Miss Sunshine" beauty pageant, being held in Redondo Beach, California, in two days. Richard, Sheryl, and Edwin want to support her, and Frank and Dwayne cannot be left alone, so the whole family goes. Because they have little money, they go on an 800-mile (1,300 km) road trip in their yellow Volkswagen van. Family tensions play out along the way, amidst the aging van's mechanical problems. When the van breaks down early on, the family learns that they must push the van until it is moving at about 20 mph (32 km/h) before it is put into gear, at which point they have to run up to the side door and jump in. Later on, the van's horn starts honking unceasingly by itself, which leads to the family being pulled over by a state trooper.

Throughout the trip, the family suffers numerous personal setbacks and discovers their need for each other's support. Richard loses an important contract that would have jump-started his motivational business. Frank encounters the ex-boyfriend who, in leaving him for an academic rival, had prompted his suicide attempt. Edwin dies from a heroin overdose, and the family has to smuggle his body out of the hospital, almost getting caught by the police. During the final leg of the trip, Dwayne discovers that he is color blind, meaning he cannot become a pilot. This prompts him to finally break his silence and scream his disdain for his family, though he apologizes after Olive calms him with a hug.
After a frantic race against the clock, the family arrives at the pageant hotel. The other contestants are slim, sexualized pre-teen girls who perform elaborate dance numbers with great panache. Richard and Dwayne realize that the amateur Olive is certain to be humiliated and try to talk her out of performing. Sheryl insists that they "let Olive be Olive," and Olive goes on stage, revealing her hitherto-unseen dance routine which Edwin had taught her to be a striptease performed to a Rocasound revamp of Rick James' "Super Freak". Despite the other girls being over-sexualized, Olive's burlesque performance horrifies most of the audience and organizers, who demand Olive be removed from the stage. The members of the Hoover family join Olive onstage and dance alongside her to show their support.
The family is later released from the hotel's security office on the condition that Olive never enters a beauty pageant in California again. Piling into the van with the horn still honking, they happily smash through the barrier of the hotel's toll booth and begin their trip back home to Albuquerque.
