Title: Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade
Rank: 152
Year: 1989
Rating: 8.2
Plot: In 1912, while exploring caves with his Boy Scout troop in Utah, a teenage Indiana Jones discovers graverobbers taking a gold crucifix from the tomb of Coronado. Believing the crucifix belongs in a museum, Indy takes it and evades the robbers to return home. However, the town sheriff arrives and forces Indy to hand it over to the robber's employer. 
Years later, in 1938, Indy confronts the employer off the Portuguese coast, recovering the crucifix and escaping. After returning to the United States, Indy learns that his father Henry has disappeared while searching for the Holy Grail. Walter Donovan, Henry's financial backer, tasks Indy with finding both Henry and the Grail. Indy receives a package containing a diary, in which Henry recorded his research on the Grail. Traveling to  Venice with Dr. Marcus Brody, Indy meets up with Henry's associate Elsa Schneider and discovers a secret catacomb beneath the library where Henry was last seen. There, an inscribed shield directs them to go to İskenderun. Indy and Elsa are then attacked by the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Sword, dedicated to preventing treasure seekers from obtaining the grail; Indy spares the group's leader, Kazim, who informs him that Henry is being held at Castle Brunwald in Austria. Indy entrusts Marcus with a map from the diary detailing a route to the Grail, and sends him to İskenderun to rendezvous with their old friend Sallah. Discovering their hotel rooms have been ransacked, Indy reveals the diary's existence to Elsa before they sleep together.
In Austria, Indy and Elsa infiltrate the castle, discovering it to be under Nazi control. Indy finds Henry and tries to escape, but surrenders after Elsa is taken captive by the Nazis. Elsa then reveals herself to be a Nazi collaborator, and Donovan appears and reveals himself to be a Nazi collaborator as well. Indy and Henry are then tied up. After arriving in İskenderun, Marcus is captured by Nazis, despite Sallah's attempts to save him. Elsa returns to Germany, while Indy and Henry escape the castle before traveling to Berlin to retrieve the diary. After recovering it from Elsa, Jones and Henry flee on a zeppelin, later evading two Luftwaffe planes pursuing them.
Meeting up with Sallah in Hatay, Indy and Henry learn that the Nazis have also traveled there using the map. While following the trail, the Nazis are attacked by the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Sword, but defeat them. In the chaos, Henry tries to rescue Marcus but is himself captured; Indy attacks the Nazi convoy in response, and is eventually able to destroy it with help from Henry and Marcus.
Indy, Henry, Marcus and Sallah proceed to a temple containing the Grail, where they observe the Nazis attempting to overcome the temple's booby traps. The Nazis capture Indy's group, and Donovan forces Indy to find a way for them by shooting and critically wounding Henry. With the help of the diary, Indy overcomes the traps; he finds a room with many cups and an ancient knight, who explains that only one cup is the true Grail. Donovan and Elsa enter; Elsa picks an ornate cup, and Donovan drinks from it, only to instantly perish from rapid aging. Indy identifies a simple cup as the true Grail, and saves Henry with its waters. Elsa tries to escape the temple with the Grail, but triggers the temple's collapse and falls to her death trying to retain the Grail. Indy tries to save the Grail from falling, but Henry convinces him to "let it go." Indy and his companions manage to escape, riding off into the sunset.
